Title: Help Desk Hours of Operation
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSHELP/pages/20087126
Version: 24
---

Help Desk Support Offerings
Help Desk Intro
INLINE
The ITS Help Desk is located in Clothier Hall for the Fall 2025 semester [
campus map
]. It is the first point of contact for all requests, incidents, and problems related to technology services provided by Swarthmore College. Support is provided via the
ITS Service Portal
, phone, zoom, and in-person appointments. During the school year, after hours and weekend support is provided by the student IT Consultant in McCabe Library. The Help Desk offers extended support options to meet the varying needs of the college community.
Important Note:
Hours, operations, and coverage are modified during Semester Breaks and College observed Holidays. Hours and operations may also vary prior to the start of the Fall/Spring semesters to allow our staff to prepare for the return of students. Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
The hours listed below are during the semester when classes are in session
.
Help Desk Hours
INLINE
ITS Service Portal
Visit the ITS Service Portal (
support.swarthmore.edu
) to quickly find answers to questions and solutions to common issues. Enter a ticket for support or to request a service. See information about upcoming maintenance, service outages, and important announcements. The portal is interactive and available 24/7/365 days a year. It offers how-to guides and FAQs.
Phone Support
Phone support is available at x8513 or 610-328-8513. If no one answers, please leave a message. A voicemail message will create a support ticket for follow-up. When leaving a voicemail message, please provide your name, Swarthmore username, a return phone number, and an alternate email address if you are unable to access your Swarthmore account or email.
In-Person & Remote Support
Clothier Hall Help Desk Appointments and Drop-ins
The ITS Help Desk provides limited drop-in support and recommends making an appointment to ensure that someone is available to help you. To schedule in-person support or computer drop-off, enter a
ticket
and then
select a time slot
:
Hours for In-Person Appointments at the Clothier Hall Help Desk:
Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Monday-Thursday 9:30 am-3:30 pm
Friday 9:30 am-12:30 pm
Remote Support Hours (phone, portal, zoom)
What if I can’t visit the Help Desk or need help after hours?
The ITS Help Desk offers remote support via phone, Zoom, and the ITS Service Portal. Calls made via Zoom Phone can be elevated to a Zoom Meeting. Virtual Zoom support can also be arranged by entering a ticket through the ITS Service Portal (
support.swarthmore.edu
).
Extended Hours for Remote Support:
Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Monday-Thursday 8 am-10 pm (when classes are in session)
Friday 8 am-8 pm (when classes are in session)
Saturday Closed
Sunday 4 pm-10 pm (when classes are in session)
McCabe Library IT Consultant (walk-up, phone, portal, zoom) - when classes are in session
Walk-up and Remote Support Available (support hours are only available during the academic year when classes are in session):
Hours for McCabe Library - Student IT Consultant:
Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Sunday-Thursday 4 pm-10 pm
Friday 4 pm-8 pm
Saturday Closed