Title: CrashPlan on your Computer
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PS/pages/20382509
Version: 22
---

Once the CrashPlan software is installed on your computer, you will see the CrashPlan icon and status indicators in your Windows taskbar or if you're on an Apple computer, the top-right menu bar.
You do not need to do anything to maintain the software or initiate the backup process. However, you may wish to recover files (or previous versions of files) or check the status of your computer's backup.
Which files are backing up?
CrashPlan is configured to back up files in your Users folders, including your Desktop, Documents, and Downloads folder and other subfolders.
NOTE:
It will
NOT
back up your entire hard drive, only the user folder(s). Please get in touch with
support@swarthmore.edu
if you need additional directories backed up.
In addition, CrashPlan will back up the user folder of any individual who logs into your PC.
How do I recover a file or folder?
Launch the CrashPlan Application. It may take a few minutes to open.
Within the CrashPlan application, click
Restore Files
to browse, search, and download files backed up for a device.
Additional options:
Include deleted files
Displays or hides deleted files. When enabled, downloaded folders include any deleted files in that folder.
Show hidden files. Display or hide hidden temporary and system files. Hidden files are always included in downloaded folders, regardless of whether the setting to view them is enabled.
Restore files options:
To open options for downloading selected files, click Restore Files from the Restore Files view
You can recover files via the web by browsing
https://console.us2.crashplan.com
.
Log in with Swarthmore credentials using the entire email address.
Clicking
Devices
from the left-hand panel lists all devices that are performing backups.
Select one of the devices and click the
Restore
icon. A web restore menu will appear with options similar to the client options listed above.  Files restored via the web are downloaded in a .zip format.
What's the status of my backup?
Roll your mouse over the CrashPlan application icon from the taskbar. The
status bar
should tell you when your next backup will run.
Detailed status:
Open the CrashPlan app and click Details. The Details view includes the number of files already backed up, the number left to do, and the next time the backup will run.