Title: Duo for International Travel
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PS/pages/20382442
Version: 11
---

DuoPrompt
How to use Duo while traveling internationally
Duo keeps your Swarthmore account secure anywhere in the world, but not all of your second-factor devices may be available to you during your travels abroad. The most common issues people run into relate to mobile phone data service and lack of Internet access, which means you may not be able to receive the Push, Call Me, or SMS Text Message options on your app-enabled smartphone or mobile phone. However, there are still other options for using the devices you already have registered as well as some other devices you can add
before
leaving for your trip.
NOTE:
in Duo, a "Passcode" is numerical and is
NOT
the same as your password
App-Enabled Smartphones (and Tablets)
Many people have a smartphone with the Duo Mobile app set up as one of their devices to access their account through Duo. If you do, the good news is this will enable you to use the passcode generation option on the app (even while your phone set on Airplane Mode to keep from getting charged for any calls, texts, or internet service) to generate any passcodes needed to log into your account. You can do the same with any app-enabled tablet devices. As long as the app on the tablet was set up and registered
before
traveling abroad you will still be able to generate passcodes without needing wifi or data service. Just remember, you can keep it in Airplane Mode to avoid any accidental data charges.
If you purchase an international SIM card to use while traveling, please be aware that it will change the phone number of your phone, so it will no longer be considered a registered device with Duo. You will have to add the new number (and re-pair the app, if you wish to use those features) to your Duo account. Adding a new number requires adding it as a new device, which requires you to authenticate with a device already registered with Duo, so please keep this in mind.
If you have a separate phone that you use for international travel you can add it to your Duo account as an additional device at any time. Keep in mind that adding or editing devices requires that you authenticate with a device that is already registered with your account.  So, you’ll need to have a pre-registered device handy.
Hardware Tokens and Security Keys
There are two types of hardware tokens currently available at Swarthmore. A hardware token is a small device made to be carried on a keyring so you can keep it with you at all times. Depending on what types of computers you will be working with and what you may be working on while traveling, you may prefer one device over another. Below is a description of each type of hardware token we offer. Please note that we are asking you to choose only one of these hardware token options if you feel you need one, contact the
Help Desk
.
Security Key (YubiKey)
3927d737-fc02-4619-a677-ba21a89b79a2
TokenU2F
Hardware Token (Passcode Generator)
d3dc3298-cc8e-4c2b-a0f7-c373dea08f06
eJyLjgUAARUAuQ==
TokenDigipass
false