Title: Getting Started With Duo
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PS/pages/20382320
Version: 23
---

3
Registering for Duo
You will be prompted to enroll a device when you set up your Swarthmore account. To prepare, install the Duo Mobile app from your device’s app store. For more information about setting up Duo and your Swarthmore account, go to
Claim Your Swarthmore Account
.
Adding and Managing Duo Devices
We strongly recommend that you set up at least two devices, to have a backup in case your first method is unavailable
.
NOTE:
You must have a registered Duo device available to add a second device, or to add a new phone number. For a detailed list
of available device types, go to
Devices and How They Authenticate
.
Manage Duo Devices through the Password Portal
The password portal requires the Duo Mobile app to authenticate. If you do not have the duo Mobile app installed or are not able to receive a push notification to authenticate, go to
Adding the DUO Mobile App (Alternate Method)
.
Follow the steps below to mange your duo devices through the password portal.
Go to
password.swarthmore.edu
Log in with your Swarthmore account
Select
My Security
and then choose one of the options below:
Select the option to add a new device.
Select a device to rename, remove, or to reactivate.
Reactivating the Duo Mobile App
If you have more than one Mobile device with the Duo Mobile app registered for authentication, you can send yourself a reactivation link.
Log into the
password portal
Go to
My Security
Select the device you want to reactivate.
Send yourself the activation link
Open the link on the device with the Duo Mobile app installed, and click Save.
If nothing happens when you click on the option to send the activation link:
Delete the device from your security settings
Select the option to add a new device
If you are not able to log into the password portal and no longer have the same phone number, contact the
Help Desk
.
If you receive a DUO notification when you are not actively signing into your Swarthmore account, do NOT accept it. This means that someone else is attempting to sign into your account! DUO will never send you requests without an active sign-in attempt. If this happens, mark the push as "Fraud" to alert ITS staff.
Available Types of Devices
A general list of available device types are listed below, but you can view a
more detailed list of devices and how they are used to authenticate here
.
Smartphones
The Duo Mobile app is the only authentication method that will work with all Swarthmore sites, and should be your primary authentication method
.
The Duo Mobile app on a smartphone is the easiest way to authenticate, and works over wi-fi or data.  When you add a smartphone to Duo, you will put in your number and specify what type of phone it is (iOS, Android, Other). The Duo Mobile app is a free app that you install from the Apple App Store or the Google Play Store. If you have an
Android device that is not able to use the Google Play Store
, you can download the Duo Mobile APK installer from the Duo website. Registering your smartphone will allow you to authenticate via a push notification (recommended), a single-use Duo app-generated passcode,
a phone call, or a single-use texted SMS passcode.
Push is considered the most secure option.
Tablets
You can add the Duo Mobile App to your tablet and pair it to your account in the same way you would for your mobile phone. During the setup process, select “Tablet” and follow the prompts. This will allow you to authenticate via push notifications and single-use app-generated passcodes.
NOTE:
in Duo, a "Passcode" is numerical and is
NOT
the same as your password
Hardware Tokens and Security Keys
If you do not have a smart phone or are not able to install the Duo Mobile app, you can request a YubiKey or Hardware Token from ITS. A YubiKey is a small security key that works via USB or USB-C (depending on the type of USB your device supports). A Hardware Token is a small passcode generator that displays a 6-digit one-time use passcode when you press a button. You can also request a YubiKey or Hardware Token for international travel, and then return it to ITS when you are no longer using it.
Landlines
Landlines can be used as an alternate
way to authenticate with Duo, and make a good backup option. Not all sites permit the use of phone calls for authentication. Duo will only display the options allowed for authentication. When you choose “Call phone” you receive an automated call to that number to complete authentication
. The message will tell you what button to press to approve a login and what button to press to deny it.