Title: National Cyber Security Awareness Month
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PS/pages/272072707
Version: 11
---

2
6
false
none
list
true
…And that’s a wrap! Thank you for a successful National Cyber Security Awareness Month.
Scavenger hunt winners have been chosen and contacted via email. We’ll see you next October!
Welcome to NCSAM 2024!
October is the official month for National Cyber Security Awareness Month (NCSAM)! While staying vigilant with your digital information is important all the time, NCSAM allows us to remind folks about various services the college offers and plenty of tips to help keep your information secure. We have plenty of information sessions, learning videos, mini-games, and resources planned for the month of October. This year we will also be debuting our digital scavenger hunt!
Digital scavenger hunt
Each week we will be sharing tips, tricks, and resources about cyber security through email and social media. We will be adding icons as clues to information that will be included on a short quiz. Check out our resources, find those clues, and correctly answer all the quiz questions at the end of the month to be entered to win money on your OneCard!
How it works
There will be two icons to look out for - one for students and one for employees:
- A garnet circle with a white outlined 'S' inside for items pertaining to students
- A garnet circle with a white outlined 'E' inside for items pertaining to employees (both faculty and staff)
These symbols will be noted next to links or tips in our emails and social media AND also next to the specific information needed to correctly answer the associated quiz question. Some information will have both symbols.
The quiz itself will be sent out on the last week of October with our final set of clues. If you get all of the answers correct your name will be added to a drawing group depending on your role (faculty, staff, or student) and THREE winners will be chosen from each group! Each winner will be notified and will receive $10 Garnet Cash!
Ask Us Anything (AUA) sessions
Our Ask Us Anything sessions are themed, open forum sessions that allow the attendees to ask whatever questions they have about that session’s theme. Each of our sessions this year will be one hour long, so come when you can and leave when you must. We will be keeping track of all the questions and answers to share with folks - regardless of whether you were able to attend the whole thing, or at all. We will also be providing an additional training session for employees who would like to use
Keeper
, our password management system.
Below is the list of our sessions for NCSAM 2024:
Ask Us Anything: Phishing
Thursday, October 10th at 2 PM EDT
Q&A summary [GDoc] - Login required
Ask Us Anything: Current Scams
Tuesday, October 15th at 11 AM EDT
Q&A summary [GDoc] - Login required
Ask Us Anything: Password Management & Keeper
Monday, October 28th at 10 AM EDT
Q&A summary [GDoc] - Login required
Keeper Password Management Training
Wednesday, December 4 at 11 AM EST -
Register at this link
!
Session recording - Login required
Cyber security resources and tips
Multi-Factor Authentication:
Getting Started With DUO
Devices and How They Authenticate
National Cybersecurity Alliance: Multi-Factor Authentication
Phishing & Job Scams
Phishing at Swarthmore
Computer Security & Student Job Scams
National Cybersecurity Alliance: Phishing
Training
KnowBe4 (Employees Only)
Password Security & Management
National Cybersecurity Alliance: Passwords
Password Tips
National Cybersecurity Alliance: Password Managers
Keeper Password Manager (Employees Only)
Keeper Free Family Account (Employees Only)