Title: What to Update After Changing Your Password
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PS/pages/20382527
Version: 5
---

You may be required to change your password periodically based on length and complexity. Because you use your Swarthmore credentials to access eduroam, mySwarthmore, your Swarthmore email, and college-owned computers you need to make sure you update your password in any place it may be saved. If you have an old password saved somewhere it may cause issues, such as temporarily locking you out of your account.
College Computer Logins
If you are a faculty or staff member and were issued a computer by the college, you use your Swarthmore credentials to log into that computer. Here is how to update that login information.
Windows
On-Campus
Plug your Windows desktop or laptop computer into an ethernet cable or connect to
eduroam
using your full @swarthmore.edu email address and new password.
Turn on or unlock your computer and log in using your new password.
This will automatically update the computer’s login information for your account.
Off-Campus
If you are off-campus and unable to easily get to campus:
Log in to your computer using your old password.
Connect to the
Swarthmore VPN
using your new password.
Once connected to VPN, lock your computer by pressing the
Windows Key
⊞
+ L
-or-
CTRL + ALT + DEL
and choosing
Lock
.
When you next unlock your computer, you should be able to use your new password.
This will automatically update your computer’s login information for your account.
Mac
On-Campus
Plug your Mac desktop or laptop computer into an ethernet cable or connect to
eduroam
using your full @swarthmore.edu email address and new password.
Turn on or unlock your computer and log in using your new password.
Once logged in, you will see a popup asking if you would like to update your login keychain. Click
Update
.
This will automatically update your computer’s login information for your account.
Off-Campus
If you are off-campus and unable to easily get to campus: keep using your old password to log into the Macintosh computer until you are able to bring it back to campus.
Note that your new network password will work for all other Swarthmore services such as email, mySwat, and eduroam. The old password will only be needed to log into your Mac while it remains off the campus network.
eduroam Wireless Access
After changing your Swarthmore password, you must “forget” or remove the eduroam network from each of the wireless devices you use on campus - laptop, smartphone, tablet, etc. The next time you connect each of your devices to the eduroam network on campus, log in using your full @swarthmore.edu email address and new network password.
For more information on how to set up the eduroam network for different devices please visit our
Wireless access page
.
Desktop and Mobile Email Clients
If you log in to your Swarthmore email account on your mobile devices or use a desktop email client you will also have to make sure to update your password there. Most applications will prompt you either the next time you open it or after it cannot connect to retrieve mail. It is always best to take a moment to update your password as soon as you receive a prompt.
Gmail App for iOS and Android
Gmail Update PW