Title: Learning Remotely
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/remote/pages/20218079
Version: 15
---

What Students Need to Know About Learning Remotely
2
Preparing to Connect to Online Classes
Internet Access
When preparing for online learning, you will want to make sure you have a working and stable internet connection. If you are on campus, you can check out our information on
checking and connecting to our wireless network (Eduroam)
. If you are not on campus, check to make sure there is a network you can use. If you have access to a personal home network, make sure you are familiar with the setup and know how to do simple troubleshooting with your modem and/or router. Check out our
tips for better WiFi
for more information. You may also have access to use wireless services as a guest or through free wifi hotspots. As is usually the case, a hard-wired ethernet connection is almost always faster and more stable than a shared WiFi connection to the network.
Security
If you are connecting to a network service you do not own or control, please make sure to use a Virtual Private Network (VPN) to keep your information secure. Swarthmore has a VPN available for you to download and use - please check out our
VPN directions
for more information. Some of Swarthmore's resources may require you to use our VPN to access them, so verify that you can connect to it properly.  VPN may also be required to connect to some Swarthmore services and software.
Many of Swarthmore's services also require using Duo 2-Factor Authentication to access. It is important that you make sure you have a Duo method that you are able to access off-campus and that you have more than one device registered - just in case. We recommend that one of your devices be a smartphone or app-enabled device, if possible. Please visit our page on
managing your Duo devices
for more information.
Applications
Check with your professors to see what applications you will need to attend your classes and complete your schoolwork. Make sure you can access all of the necessary applications you need and that you are clear in how you are going to be submitting work to your professors.
A key application to check is
Moodle
- make sure you are still able to access all of your Moodle courses. You will also want to download Zoom and verify that you can log in - through the web application and through any of the applications for mobile and desktop (as needed). Take a look at our
Zoom participant's guide
for information on what to expect when attending classes via Zoom. You may want to consider saving all of your important class-related files in your Google Drive. This will make sure they can be available to you on any device. Take a look at our
tips for sharing files with Google Drive
. You may also need to edit non-Google files that you have saved in your Drive.
If you will be without a computer or internet connection during this time of remote learning, please contact the Help Desk at
support@swarthmore.edu
to see what assistance is available from the College.
If you have additional questions about how things may be changing or what support is available, please view Swarthmore's page on
Frequently Asked Questions for Students, Parents, and Families
.
Using Zoom With Your Swarthmore Account
While you will most likely be using Zoom as a participant in a class or meeting, you can still check out our
Zoom documentation
to learn more. When logging into Zoom via a web browser, you can go to
swarthmore.zoom.us
and log in with your Swarthmore credentials. You can also host meetings and collaborate with other students using Zoom via video, audio, and screen share. Zoom meetings hosted by students are limited to 40 minutes. If you need to host longer meetings, please request a Zoom upgrade at
support@swarthmore.edu.
There is no time limit for being a participant in a meeting.
Building A Routine & Minimizing Distractions
Making sure you stick to a routine and minimizing any distractions around you can be incredibly important while learning remotely. We have provided a few links to some helpful videos from LinkedIn Learning below:
Productivity Tips: Finding Your Rhythm
Eliminating External Distractions
Eliminating Internal Distractions
There are additional videos and courses to help you get into the groove of learning remotely saved on LinkedIn Learning as part of a Learning Remotely collection that you can find here (requires login):
swarthmore.edu/LiLRemoteStudents
Additional Learning Through LinkedIn Learning
Swarthmore offers all of our students the ability to log in to LinkedIn Learning and take advantage of the entire library of learning videos and courses available. If you have not yet logged in to LinkedIn Learning, you can do so here:
linkedin.swarthmore.edu
. Upon your first login, you will be given the option to link to your personal LinkedIn account. You do not have to do this in order to access LinkedIn Learning.
If you do choose to link your account, or already have, then you will need to login twice every time to access the LinkedIn Learning site - first with your Swarthmore credentials, then with your personal LinkedIn account. The only information Swarthmore will see from your personal LinkedIn account will be your name, email address, a title you have listed, and LinkedIn Learning will use your list of skills and interests to suggest videos. Swarthmore will not see your personal account activity or your network.
Accessing On-Campus Resources Remotely
There are many on-campus resources that you can access remotely. Below is a list of resources and offices you may need to access remotely:
Swarthmore Libraries
Student Disability Services
Writing Center
Academic Support
Contacting the ITS Help Desk
ITSHELP
Help Desk Contact Block