Title: Setting Up Remote Desktop
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/remote/pages/20218089
Version: 4
---

Use Remote Desktop to connect to a computer on campus remotely.
Configuring the Host Computer
Windows Host
Follow the instructions on Microsoft's
Remote Desktop - Allow access to your PC
page.
Settings:
Enable
Network Level Authentication
Select the users you wish to grant access to the system.  Only add people that you know and trust.  Do not add all users or large groups of users.  For security, do not allow remote users to be administrators on the computer.
Note the IP address and name of your computer
Mac Host
Follow the instructions on Apple's
Turn Mac screen sharing on or off
page.
Settings:
Specify
Only these users
and select individual users to share the screen.  For security reasons, only add people that you know and trust.  Do not add all users or large groups of users.
If sharing with a non macOS user, select Computer Settings and check
VNC viewers may control screen with password
and enter a secure password.  This password is separate from your regular Swarthmore password.
Note the IP address and name of your computer.  The IP address is available from
System Preferences
→
Network
screen.  The IP address consists of 4 numbers separated by periods
Connecting to a Windows Computer
Connect to a Windows computer from a Mac
Download
Microsoft Remote Desktop
from the App Store and install
Connect to the
Swarthmore VPN
Open Microsoft Remote Desktop - Click the
plus (+)
sign and select
Desktop
Type the name or IP address of the computer that you want to connect to and click
Save
Log in to the desired computer using
garnet\username
and your password - replacing "username" with your Swarthmore username
Perform DUO authentication (if necessary)
Connect to a Windows computer from a Windows computer
Connect to the
Swarthmore VPN
Open Remote Desktop Connection
Click the
Start
button
In the search box, type
Remote Desktop Connection.
In the list of results, click
Remote Desktop Connection
.
In the Computer box, type the name or IP address of the computer that you want to connect and then click
Connect
Connect to the desired computer using
garnet\username
and your password - replacing "username" with your Swarthmore username
Perform DUO authentication (if necessary)
Connecting to a Mac Computer
Connect to a Mac computer from a Mac Computer
Connect to the
Swarthmore VPN
Finder → Go menu → Connect to Server
Enter
vnc://<ip address of remote computer>
(replace <ip address of remote computer> with the actual IP address which consists of 4 numbers separated by periods)
If prompted, enter your Swarthmore username and password
Additional documentation from Apple:
Share the screen of another Mac
Connect to a Mac computer from a Windows Computer
Install a "VNC viewer" application such as
Tight VNC
or
RealVNC Viewer
.  You will only need to install a viewer application, not a server application.
Connect to the
Swarthmore VPN
Start the VNC viewer program of your choice
Configure the connection (this may only need to be done once)
Create a new connection for the remote Mac computer
Use the IP address of the Mac computer as the address.  The IP address consists of 4 numbers separated by periods.
Use the password specified in the
System Preferences
→
Sharing
→
Screen Sharing
→
Computer settings screen for the remote Mac
.  This is not your Swarthmore password.
Start the VNC connection
Once connected, you may also need to log into the remote computer with your Swarthmore username and password (or the username and password you normally use to log into the Mac).
Additional Considerations
If your computer shuts down due to a power outage or operating system update, you will have to physically turn it on before accessing it remotely again.  You may want to look into seeing if the system can be configured to start up automatically or purchase a battery backup (UPS).
In most cases, a campus desktop computer will retain the same IP address.  If the system is moved or powered down for more than a day, the IP address may change.  Wired connections retain their IP addresses for longer than wireless connections, so we suggest that any machine regularly used for remote desktop use should be connected to a wired network.