Title: Tips for Better WiFi
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/remote/pages/20218045
Version: 1
---

These are tips for better optimizing your personal home network. We realize Wifi networks and equipment may vary. These are general tips that can apply to most systems.
Regularly Reboot Your Equipment
Restart your modem or router. Doing this allows the device to update its software, if necessary, which can help optimize your connection and speed.
Confirm Your WiFi Network
Sometimes you may be connected to your Gateway's public WiFi hotspot network, which can limit your WiFi speed. Go to the WiFi settings of your device to make sure you're connected to your personal in-home WiFi network.
Connect High-Bandwidth Devices via Ethernet
Whenever possible, plugging stationary devices directly into your Gateway or router using an Ethernet cable may provide optimal connectivity. For example, it's ideal for desktop computers, gaming consoles and video streaming devices to be connected with an Ethernet cable instead of connecting wirelessly, since activities on those devices use a lot of bandwidth (e.g., graphics-rich online gaming, movies or TV shows).
Turn Off Devices and Apps You’re Not Using
Active devices can interfere with your router, using valuable bandwidth. And while turning off mobile apps when they’re not in use doesn’t impact your WiFi performance, it may help the device work more effectively.
Equipment Placement
Find your router’s sweet spot to broadcast the strongest signal. Avoid interference: Keep your router away from large metal objects and electronics like microwave ovens, cordless phones, and Bluetooth devices. Also, avoid crowded spots, such as inside or behind furniture. And keep in mind, the closer you are to your router, the better your WiFi performance can be. Easy ways to check signal strength: Free apps like Wi-Fi Sweetspots or Wi-Fi Maximiser can identify the strongest possible signal in the areas where you use wireless devices most often. To check signal strength with a PC or Mac, try software like inSSIDer or Xirrus.
Check Bridge Mode and Antennae for Third-Party Routers
If you use your own router along with your Gateway, make sure the Gateway is in bridge mode. You'll also want to position the antennae of your router so that one is pointing vertically (12 o'clock), and the other one is pointing horizontally (either 3 or 9 o'clock) to broadcast the strongest signal.
Contact Your Service Provider
Many service providers are boosting internet speeds at no extra cost. They may also have additional tips specific to your type of service.