Title: Working Remotely
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/remote/pages/20217861
Version: 81
---

none
Accessing Swarthmore Remotely
For all Employees
Check your Duo devices
Have at least one device registered with Duo that you can access from off-campus
We strongly recommend adding your smartphone, or an app-enabled mobile device, to the Duo app
Check any hardware tokens you may have for Duo authentication and ensure they are working properly
Install the
Swarthmore Virtual Private Network (VPN)
on any devices you wish to use off-campus
Verify that you can log in to the Swarthmore VPN and that the VPN application is up-to-date
Upload files to Google Drive and review
Google Drive File Sharing
for collaborating on documents and projects
Make sure you can connect to the Internet. Check out our
tips for better WiFi
for more information.
More Resources
Zoom Video Conferencing
Working Safely Online Remotely
Cybersecurity Video Resources
LinkedIn Learning: Thriving Through Change
[pdf]
Forwarding Calls from Your Office Phone
Equipment Removal for Remote Work
ITS Training Events
For Faculty
Teaching Remotely
Help with Moodle
LinkedIn Learning Remote Resources for Faculty
For Staff
LinkedIn Learning Remote Resources for Staff
Resources for Working Remotely (Particularly Admin Staff)
[GDoc]
For Students
Resources for Learning Remotely
LinkedIn Learning Remote Resources for Students
LinkedIn Learning: Thriving Through Change
[pdf]
Help Desk Support Offerings
The ITS Help Desk is located in Beardsley 110 [
campus map
]. It is the first point of contact for all requests, incidents, and problems related to technology services provided by Swarthmore College. Support is provided via the
ITS Service Portal
, phone, zoom, and in-person appointments. During the school year, after hours and weekend support is provided by the student IT Consultant in McCabe Library. The Help Desk offers extended support options to meet the varying needs of the college community.
note
Hours, operations, and coverage are modified during semester breaks and college observed holidays. Hours and operations may also vary prior to the start of the Fall/Spring semesters to allow our staff to prepare for the return of students. Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Hours, operations, and coverage are modified during semester breaks and college observed holidays. Hours and operations may also vary prior to the start of the Fall/Spring semesters to allow our staff to prepare for the return of students. Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
ITS Service Portal
Visit the ITS Service Portal (
http://support.swarthmore.edu
) to quickly find answers to questions and solutions to common issues. Enter a ticket for support or to request a service. See information about upcoming maintenance, service outages, and important announcements. The portal is interactive and available 24/7/365 days a year. It offers how-to guides and FAQs.
Phone Support
Phone support is available at x8513 or 610-328-8513. If no one answers, please leave a message. A voicemail message will create a support ticket for follow-up. When leaving a voicemail message, please provide your name, Swarthmore username, a return phone number, and an alternate email address if you are unable to access your Swarthmore account or email.
In-Person & Remote Support
The hours listed below are during the semester when classes are in session
Beardsley Help Desk Appointments and Drop-ins
The ITS Help Desk provides limited drop-in support and recommends making an appointment to ensure that someone is available to help you. To schedule in-person support or computer drop-off, enter a
ticket
and then
select a time slot
:
Hours for In-Person Appointments at the Beardsley Help Desk:
Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Monday-Thursday 9:30 am-3:30 pm
Friday 9:30 am-12:30 pm
Remote Support Hours (phone, portal, zoom)
The ITS Help Desk endeavors to resolve requests virtually as a first option since most issues can be solved remotely via Phone or Zoom support. Virtual Zoom support can be scheduled by entering a ticket via the ITS Service Portal (
support.swarthmore.edu
)
Extended Hours for Remote Support:
Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Monday-Thursday 8 am-10 pm (when classes are in session)
Friday 8 am-8 pm (when classes are in session)
Saturday Closed
Sunday 4 pm-10 pm (when classes are in session)
McCabe Library - IT Consultant (walk-up, phone, portal, zoom) - when classes are in session
Walk-up and Remote Support Available (support hours are only available during the academic year when classes are in session):
Hours for McCabe Library - Student IT Consultant
Visit
The Dash
for current hours.
Sunday-Thursday 4 pm-10 pm
Friday 4 pm-8 pm
Saturday Closed