Title: Add Users to Omeka Website
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/36110381
Version: 1
---

User accounts in an Omeka S installation allow your staff and audience to do things like add items,
make and moderate submissions
, upload media, create virtual exhibits, and edit metadata.
User roles set at the installation level are separate from
site-specific user roles
. A user must be created for the installation and then given site roles. This allows you to give minimal installation-wide permissions to someone who will be drafting and publishing a virtual exhibit as one single site.
Administrators manage and create users from the Users section of the main administrative dashboard (with the head and shoulders icon). The Users section displays the user’s email followed by full name in parentheses, as well as their role and the date the account was created.
There are six user roles in Omeka S:
Global Administrator
: full installation privileges.
Supervisor
: robust site and content privileges.
Editor
(Content Expert): full privileges for content creation.
Reviewer
: robust content privileges but can only delete own content.
Author
: create own content.
Researcher
: search and read privileges only.
Behind the scenes, role values use the following slugs:
global_admin
site_admin
editor
reviewer
author
researcher
.
One example of how you may wish to manage the users of your site:
A
Global Admin
user who installs, manages, and upgrades the modules and themes, and controls fundamental installation settings and server utilities.
A
Supervisor
who manages user accounts on the installation and sites.
One or more
Editors
who are responsible for the design and management of items, item sets, and resource templates.
Reviewer
staff members who are responsible for manually adding digitized or collected items and describing them according to institutional guidelines, and editing the additions of others.
Authors
who can add and edit their own items, and who are also given site-specific permissions to create exhibits and publish their research using items in the collection.
Researchers
who can be given site-specific permissions, but cannot add items.
Remember that these roles are separate from the
user roles assigned at a site-specific level
, which allow registered users of the installation to have site access to build exhibit pages.
Create a user
Only Supervisors and Global Administrators can create, edit, and delete users.
To create a new user, select the "Add new user" button in the upper right hand corner of the Users section in the administrative dashboard.
On the Add User page, enter the following:
Email address
Name
(full name or a display name)
A
Role
from the dropdown menu (see above for user role privileges)
Check the
Is active
box to confirm that the user is active. A user who is inactive cannot log in.
You also have the options to customize a number of other settings;
see below for more details on user settings
.
The user is then sent a notification email to set up their account & password. The email will appear to come from what is set as the Administrator email in the
General settings of the installation
. Each email will expire 14 days after being sent. If the email expires, an administrator can manually set up a user's temporary password and email them.
Greetings!
A user has been created for you on Omeka at [website]
Your username is your email: [email]
Click this link to set a password and begin using Omeka S: [website unique link]
Your activation link will expire on [date and time]. If you have not completed the user activation process by the time the link expires, you will need to request another activation email from your site administrator.