Title: Creating Posts In WordPress With Classic Editor
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20774985
Version: 5
---

Note
Please note these instructions are for the WordPress Classic Editor. If you are looking for instructions on how to use the Block Editor, Please see our documentation on
Creating Posts With WordPress Block Editor
.
What Are WordPress Posts?
Posts are blog entries listed in reverse chronological order on your website. They are often articles or updates you share to offer up new content to your readers.
Posts are always associated with a date, which is included in the URL. Sometimes, posts are confused with pages. See WordPress' documentation
Post vs. Page
for an explanation of the differences. below, you will find directions for creating a new blog post.
Creating a New Post
After logging into the
Dashboard
, click the
Posts
tab
Click the
Add New
sub-tab
Fill in the input fields
As needed, select a
category
, add
tags
, and make other selections from the sections on the side of post. Explanations of of these sections below.
When you are ready, click
Publish
. If you are not ready, click
Save Draft
Uploading Media / Documents
You can upload the following image types to a post or page on your blog by using the
Add Media
button found to the above left your visual editor:
.jpg/.jpeg
.gif
.png
.mp3
.mp4
.pdf
.doc/.docx
Adding Media Files to a Post or Page
Go to
Posts
->
Add New
or
Pages
->
Add New
, or open an existing post in editing mode.
Place your cursor where you would like the image to appear, and click on the
Add Media
button found on the top left, above your editor.
Drag and drop or select files to upload from your computer. Or select files from from previous uploads in your Media Library
Once the uploading process has completed, you will be given the option to edit some settings before inserting the image into the post/page.
URL
- The full direct link to where the image is stored on your site. This cannot be changed.
Title
- Text displayed as a tooltip (when a mouse is hovered over the image).
Caption
- Image caption displayed directly underneath the image.
Alt Text
- Controls what text replaces the image for readers using screenreaders and other assistive technology and readers who have limited internet access or low bandwidth for whom images may not appear.
Description
- Text displayed with the image in your dashboard and attachment pages on your blog.
Alignment
– The position of the image within your post or page, Left, Right, or Center
Link To
: – The Link To settings determine the URL/web address to which the image will be linked when clicked on by a visitor to your site.
Size
– The size of the image. You can select
Thumbnail
,
Medium
, or
Full Size
. You can change this later under
Settings
->
Media
.
When finished choosing your image settings, click on the
Insert into Post
button
Creating a Gallery of Images
After clicking the
Add Media
button, select
Create Gallery
from the left side panel
Select all the images you want in your gallery. Each image selected will have check mark at the top right of the image
Once images are selected, click the
Create New Gallery
button
Summary of Post/Page Editing
Title
- The title of your post. You can use any words or phrases. Avoid using the same title twice as that will cause problems. You can use commas, apostrophes, quotes, hyphens/dashes, and other typical symbols in the post.
Post Editing Area
- The blank box where you enter your writing, links, links to images, and any information you want to display on your site. You can use either the
Visual
or the
Text/HTML
view to compose your posts.
Preview button
- Allows you to view the post before officially publishing it.
Save
- Allows you to save your post as a draft / pending review rather than immediately publishing it. To return to your drafts later, visit
Posts
> Edit
from the list of posts.
Publish
- Publishes your post on the site. You can edit the time when the post is published by clicking the
Edit
link to the right of the
Publish Immediately
option and specifying the time you want the post to be published. By default, at the time the post is first auto-saved, that will be the date and time of the post within the database.
Tags
-
(For Posts Only)
Refers to micro-categories for your blog, similar to including index entries for a page. Posts with similar tags are linked together when a user clicks one of the tags. Tags have to be enabled with the right code in your theme for them to appear in your post. Add new tags to the post by typing the tag into the box and clicking
Add
.
Categories
-
(For Posts Only)
The general topic the post can be classified in. Generally, bloggers have 7-10 categories for their content. Readers can browse specific categories to see all posts in the category. To add a new category, click the +Add New Category link in this section. You can manage your categories by going to
Posts > Categories
.
Excerpt
- A summary or brief teaser of your posts featured on the front page of your site as well as on the category, archives, and search non-single post pages.
Password Protect This Post
- To password protect a post, click
Edit
next to
Visibility
in the
Publish
area to the top right, then click
Password Protected
, click
Ok
, and enter a password. Then click
Ok
. *Note - Editor and Admin users can see password protected or private posts in the edit view without knowing the password.