Title: Guide to Teaching with Zoom
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20910503
Version: 7
---

Zoom Documentation
Zoom Documentation
Zoom Tips and Tricks for Teachers
Swarthmore Zoom Resources
Scheduling a Zoom Meeting
Zoom Participants Guide
General Zoom Advice
Encourage everyone to find a quiet space in which to participate where they won’t be interrupted and where background noise won’t distract other people if they are asked to contribute.
Be careful how you use the chat window. It can be used for comments/questions as class goes along, but understand that you won’t be able to see this window if you’re in a PowerPoint presentation.  Users that come in late to the meeting won't see any messages that came in before their arrival.
Connecting to your session
Connect to the fastest internet connection available.
Connect via ethernet cable instead of Wi-Fi if possible.
Screen sharing tips
Remove any photo backgrounds on your computer desktop.
Close email and chat programs not being used for the presentation to avoid distracting pop-up messages.
Don't crowd the view. Make sure to have one application visible at a time.
If you need to switch between other applications, have them open and ready to demonstrate.
Turn off your computer's "sleep" function--especially if a re-login is required.
Remember to maximize your screen (click Full Screen) in Web demos.
Audio
Use a quality headset, or microphone.
Avoid speaker phones, which can cause voice fluctuation and background noise.
Engaging your audience
Do a "dry run"
with the same computer/audio equipment and internet connection you will use on the day of your class.
Ensure adequate time to troubleshoot equipment. For instance: Make sure your audio and video settings are correct for your camera and microphone.
Keep a timer and put time markers in your lesson plan to keep you on track.
Activities may take more (or less) time than they would in a face-to-face class.  Perhaps have materials, or discussions you can include or drop depending on how the class is going.
Do a dry run at least 48 hours before the live event.
Open your meeting room 10-15 minutes before start time. Participants like to know if they have accessed the Zoom session correctly.
Record your session
in case anyone has technical problems, or for later review.  You can choose later whether or not to post or share the session.
Click record … recordings are saved when you leave or end the meeting.
Acknowledgments
Some of this material was adapted from:
https://helpx.adobe.com/adobe-connect/kb/best-practices-hosts-presenters-using.html
http://www.facultyfocus.com/articles/online-education/six-tips-preparing-online-course/