Title: KnowBe4
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20775146
Version: 8
---

Description
Cyber security training and learning platform.
Access
Faculty & Staff
Platform
WEB
Red
ios
Purple
ANdroid
Description
KnowBe4 is a web-based cyber security learning tool that provides various types of videos and modules on different cyber security topics. We  have sample videos and modules to learn more about things like phishing and tips for keeping your information secure including in your home environment.
Getting Started
Follow the steps below to log in and view your dashboard.
Go to:
swarthmore.edu/safeonline
.
Enter your Swarthmore email address, click
Next
.
You will be redirected to the Swarthmore single sign-on login.
Log in with your Swarthmore credentials.
Your learning dashboard will load automatically after login.
There are a few tabs where you can find different types of training.
Dashboard
- Your dashboard will be an overview of all the videos, training, and activities you have assigned or have taken part of.
Training
– Your training tab is where you will find any training videos or modules that have been assigned to you to complete.
Library
– Your library is a list of optional videos and modules that have been recommended by Swarthmore ITS.
KnowBe4 Learner App
– KnowBe4 also has a mobile app that allows you to learn on the go! This tab will provide you with directions for getting up your app, including a quick login QR code, and will have a list of all the devices you link your KnowBe4 account to.
Your profile will appear as your name in the top-right corner of the page. This is where you will be able to view and edit a basic user profile, quickly return to your training, or log out.
Contact Help
If you are having an issue with accessing the site or learning and training materials or have additional questions you can submit a ticket at
support.swarthmore.edu
.
If you suspect you have received a phishing email you can forward it to
phishing@swarthmore.edu
.