Title: macOS Upgrades
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20774918
Version: 18
---

Description
Upgrades to macOS
Access
Faculty & Staff (college owned computers only)
Platform
MAC
Yellow
Location
Faculty and Staff Apple computers
These update instructions are for college-owned computers only.  All Swarthmore community members are encouraged to update their personal Macs through the App Store.
Support and Recommendations
Swarthmore ITS is committed to supporting the most recent versions of macOS when they are released, and recommends running one of the two most recent versions of macOS for security and compatibility. To keep up with security and compatibility trends, eligible College-owned computers are scheduled to be automatically updated to the most recent OS every summer.    If you would like to manually update your macOS during the school year, please follow the following instructions.
macOS 26 Tahoe (latest version)
Apple released a new operating system in Fall 2025.   At this time, ITS has not had a chance to test supported networking and academic software in macOS 26 and has
not approved
Tahoe for use on College computers. We recommend waiting at least a month before updating to any new OS unless you wish to make use of specific software or features that require the new version.
Manually updating to macOS 15 Sequoia (currently recommended)
You can update macOS on your College-owned computer using the Self Service app in your Applications folder. If you do not see the Self Service app on your College-owned computer, contact the Help Desk and request that your system be enrolled in our Apple software management system.
Save any unsaved documents and close any open programs.   If you are updating a MacBook, plug the laptop into AC power.
Search for Self Service on your laptop and launch the program.
In Self Service, navigate to the "OS" section and click on
macOS Sequoia Upgrade
.   Note that this option will only be available if you are running an older version of macOS.
You will be walked through the download and install process. The entire process will take about thirty minutes and will reboot the computer.