Title: Make Me Admin
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20775826
Version: 5
---

Description
Temporary admin access software
Access
Faculty & Staff
Platform
WINDOWS
Blue
About Make Me Admin
This tool gives non-admin users the ability to install software in Admin mode temporarily, while letting you run as a ‘normal’ user the rest of the time.
Requires OS Versions
Windows 10 or 11
How to use Make Me Admin on Campus Windows computers
Launch
Make Me Admin
from the Start menu. Select the
Start
menu, scroll down and click
Make Me Admin
from the list of Apps.
When the application launches, it will determine whether you already have administrator rights.
If you do NOT already have administrator rights, the
Grant Me Administrator Rights
button will be enabled.
If you DO already have administrator rights, that button will be disabled, and the
Remove my Admin Rights
button will be enabled.
Click the
Grant Me Administrator Rights
button. The application will attempt to add you to the Administrators group on your computer. If this process is successful, the application window will disappear, and a new icon will be added to the notification area on the taskbar, near the date and time. A popup message will appear for a few seconds, indicating that you have been added as a Member to the Administrators group.
Note:
This icon will remain in the notification area as long as your administrator rights are active.
You should now be able to perform administrator task(s): changing computer settings, installing or updating software, etc.
If you receive a prompt from User Account Control to log in,  enter your user name and password. (garnet\username)
You have 15 minutes as an Administrator to change your device settings, install or update a program, etc. After the 15 minutes, Make Me Admin will display one final popup message stating you are no longer a member of the Administrators group, and then close completely.
Note:
You only need Administrator rights to start an install or update a program. Your install or update will continue to run even after you have been removed from the Administrator group.
Repeat Steps 1-5 as needed to change computer settings or install or update software.