Title: MATLAB
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20774999
Version: 21
---

Description
Technical computing software for engineers and scientists.
Access
Everyone
Platform
MAC
Yellow
WINDOWS
Blue
LINUX
Green
WEB
Red
About MATLAB
MATLAB is a programming language designed for analyzing data, developing algorithms, and creating models and applications.  Swarthmore licenses the
Full Suite
which includes all available toolboxes and Simulink.
MATLAB Online
In addition to the desktop version of the software, all Swarthmore employees and students have single sign-on access to an online version of MATLAB at:
matlab.mathworks.com
.  This can be used from any web browser.  You will log in with your Swarthmore email address and be prompted to set up a MathWorks account profile on first login.
Installation Instructions
Swarthmore community members can install MATLAB on any college or personally-owned computer by first creating a MathWorks account and then downloading the appropriate MATLAB installer.
Downloading MATLAB
Go to
mathworks.com/downloads
.  You will log in with your Swarthmore email address and be redirected to Swarthmore’s SSO.  Select the version of MATLAB that you would like to use.  ITS recommends using the latest version unless you have a reason to use an earlier release.
Installing MATLAB
Open the installer you downloaded from the MathWorks web site
Under the dialog title "Install MathWorks Software", select
Log in with a MathWorks Account
When requested, enter your MathWorks account information.
Continue through the installation wizard
When prompted to do so, select the
Academic – Total Headcount
license type
Single users or Research Lab Computers: Select the
Individual
license
Departmental or ITS Lab Computers: select the
Concurrent
license (see below for more installation instructions)
You will be prompted which products you would like to install. Most people install MATLAB and all the toolboxes, but you can remove some items to reduce the disk space needed.
Make sure "License Manager" is unchecked since this is just for server installations.
Lab Computers
Since our Matlab license is now SSO-supported, the individual license of Matlab can be installed and used within lab environments. Lab users will log in with their Swarthmore email address and be prompted to set up a MathWorks account profile on first login.