Title: Microsoft Office 365
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20774931
Version: 27
---

Description
Microsoft Office 365 for Education
Access
Everyone
Platform
MAC
Yellow
WINDOWS
Blue
WEB
Red
About
Office 365 is free to Swarthmore employees and students that have a Microsoft account using their Swarthmore email address. The service includes both downloadable and online versions of applications including Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and OneNote. You can install Office on up to 5 PCs or Macs, 5 tablets, and 5 smartphones.
Please note:
The
office.com
website will advertise some pieces of software like Project and Loop, which are not included in our subscription. We recommend following the instructions below to bulk install all available software.
Sign in with your Swarthmore email address at
https://office.com
Most college owned computers already have Microsoft Office installed. Installing multiple version of Microsoft Office can cause problems. Remove any old versions before installing Office 365.
Downloading 365 Desktop Apps
Once logged into
https://office.com
:
Select the
Install Office
drop down menu
and select
Office 365 app
.
Find
Office apps & devices
.
Select
Install Office
. This will begin the download process.
Troubleshooting
View Only: Your Account Doesn't Allow Editing on a Mac - Office 365 Error
After installing Office 365 apps on a personally owned Mac some users get an error that says:
View Only. Your account doesn't allow editing on a Mac. To learn more, contact your admin about your Office plan
First, verify that you are using the proper account:
Click
Use Another Account
and sign in with your email address and Microsoft password.
Alternately,
click the
Activate
button
and sign in with credentials.
If that does not work, you can attempt to clear credential caches and reactivate Office 365 for the Mac:
Open
Finder
→  click go on the top menu bar →  go to folder →  input the following path: ~/library/Group Containers/
Right-click each of the folders below if present, and then click move to trash.
ubf8t346g9.ms
ubf8t346g9.office
ubf8t346g9.officeosfwebhost
If that doesn’t work the last option is to
try uninstalling office
for Mac completely then re-install and re-activating office.
Office Accessibility
Office Accessibility Center
Office 365 Accessibility Features
365 Speech Recognition