Title: mySwarthmore
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20775019
Version: 29
---

Description
Self-service administrative portal for active employees and students
Access
Everyone
Platform
WEB
Red
Description
mySwarthmore is the College’s self-service administrative portal for active Faculty, Staff, and Students. mySwarthmore is a collection of Ellucian-provided self-service components, home-grown applications, and third-party vendor sites.
Access
Log into mySwarthmore at
myswat.swarthmore.edu
using your College network credentials; if you are off campus, you must
log into the College’s VPN
, as an added security measure, to access mySwarthmore.
A license manager is required to use this service. Users must be on-campus or connected to
VPN when off campus
.
Role-Based Access
Your mySwarthmore view will reflect your institutional role. For example, students will not see the Employee menu unless they are a student worker.  Likewise, faculty will be presented with different tiles than staff. Additional access exists within those roles so tiles may appear or disappear based on individual user access and time of year.
Main Menu
The
Main
menu is accessible to all roles.
General Information
Edit Preferred First Name, Personal Pronoun, Gender Identification (
NOTE: Due to a current product defect, these fields cannot be updated. Please contact your data steward to make changes in the official system of record.
)
Edit Emergency Contact(s) -
Always make sure you have at least one Emergency Contact listed at all times.
To update your Direct Deposit, please contact the Payroll Office
View/Update Personal Information
View Direct Deposit
Athletic Facilities Waiver & PAR-Q
Directory Information
Emergency Evacuation Assistance Form
My Documents (Available to active faculty and students only)
Request a Parking Permit
Send Concerns (Available to staff only)
Employees
The
Employee
menu is accessible to all employees, including student workers.
Employee Dashboard
View Leave Balances
View Pay Stub
View Direct Deposit Information
View Deduction History
View Tax Information
(2022 and prior)
Report/Approve Exempt Leave
Report/Approve Time for Student Employee
Access Salary Planner
HR Employees will have additional administrative access (i.e. EPAFs)
2023 W-2 Form, ADP
Annual Notices and Disclosures (Available to faculty and staff only)
Attendance Enterprise Employee Self-Service (Available to non-exempt staff only)
Benefitfocus Employee Login (Available to benefits-eligible employees only)
Bright Horizons (Available to benefits-eligible employees only)
Change Home Address with HR (Available to faculty and staff only)
Crisis Communications Contact Information
Emergency Evacuation Assistance Form (Available to faculty and staff only)
Internal Job Opportunities (Available to staff only)
Leave Lookup for Supervisors (Available to staff supervisors only)
Request a Parking Permit (Available to faculty and staff only)
Salary Letter (Available to staff only)
Finance
The
Finance
menu is accessible to all Financial Managers
Financial Reporting
Finance Self-Service (Available to select faculty and staff)
Students
Students have access to the Main menu, Student menu, e-forms, and Worth Health Center via the navigation at the top of the page. If you are a student employee, you will also see the Employee menu.
Under the
Student
menu, students have access to:
Student Profile
Academic Transcript Request
Disability Accommodations
Class of 2024 Perspectives Survey (Available to seniors only)
Crisis/Confidential Contact Information
Abroad Credit Evaluation System (ACES)
Degree Audit
Diploma and Commencement Name (Available to seniors only)
Emergency Evacuation Assistance Form
Final Exam Schedule
Grades at a Glance
Housing Portal
Majors and Minors
National Student Clearinghouse
Placement Results
Registration (Available during pre-registration period only)
Schedule an Appointment with the Writing Program
Shadow Grades
Shadow Grade Administration (Available to Registrar)
Social Security Number (Available for students missing SSNs only)
Student Transfer Credit Evaluation
Tax Notifications (1098-T)
View/Pay Student Account Bill
Under the
e-forms
menu, students can access:
*Some forms are only available during designated time periods.
Course Add Request Form*
Course Add Request Form - CXPL*
Credit/No Credit Grading*
Incomplete Course Request Form
Student Leave/Return Request Form
Uncover CR Letter Grade*
Under the
Financial Aid
menu, students can access:
Current Financial Aid Checklist (Available to returning students only)
Historical Financial Aid Information
Under the
Worth Health Center
menu, students can access:
Health Insurance Waiver
Student Health Portal
Under the
New Student Forms
menu, from May through August incoming and first year transfer students can access:
Advising Questionnaire
Disability Accommodations
Emergency Contact Information
Emergency Evacuation Assistance
Health Insurance Waiver
Housing Portal
Parent Information
Personal Information
Student Health Portal
Summer Social Justice Institute
Upload your photo
Worth Health Information Letter
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Inaccurate Information?
Faculty: contact the Provost's Office at
provost@swarthmore.edu
Staff: contact the Human Resources information systems team at
hris@swarthmore.edu
.​​​​​​
Students: contact the Registrar's Office at
registrar@swarthmore.edu
Browser Incompatibility?
mySwarthmore should be supported on all current versions of the following browsers:
Google Chrome
Mozilla Firefox
Apple Safari
Microsoft Edge
If your browser is not displaying mySwarthmore properly, please try a different browser on your device
How do I view my Direct Deposit Information?
Under the Main Menu, click General Information.
How do I update my Personal Pronoun and Gender Identification?
Under the Main Menu, click General Information → Personal Information.
How do I change my Google Display Name?
Click the Directory Information tile on the Main Menu.​​​​​​
How do I change my address?
If you are a student and need your address changed in mySwarthmore, please contact the Registrar's office at
registrar@swarthmore.edu
Faculty and staff members can make the change directly in mySwarthmore by clicking on Change Home Address with HR under the Employee Menu.​​​​​
To update your address, log into mySwarthmore using your network credentials, then take the following steps:
Select the link for Employee Menu.
Select the link for Change Home Address with HR, which may be toward the bottom of the page.
Your current address will display in the top section of the page, along with the date it will take effect (the first date not already paid).
Enter your new address in the lower section, then click the small box below to certify that your information is correct.
Pennsylvania residents will be required to select your county, municipality and school district codes from the drop-down lists provided.
Click the blue Verify Address Button and verify your new address is listed correctly in the pop-up window. If it is correct, check Address is Correct, Skip Verification, then click Submit.
If corrections are needed, close the Address Verification window and make any necessary corrections in the address field.
Where Can I Find My Leave Balance and Details?
You can see your Vacation, Sick, and Administrative leave balances on the Employee Dashboard. For
non-exempt
staff members, both Accrued and Taken time are updated with each bi-weekly pay. For
exempt
staff members, Accrued amounts are updated with each mid-monthly pay, but Taken amounts are updated when a Leave Report you submit that includes time off is approved.
Both exempt and non-exempt staff members can see a record of their Taken time in Leave Details
, accessible from the Employee Dashboard by clicking Full Leave Balance Information and selecting either Vacation, Sick, or Administrative Leave time. Each link will take you to a details page for that type of leave time. On those detail pages:
Non-exempt staff will see their Taken time in the Earned and Taken section, only.
Exempt staff will see their Taken time in the Report Usage section, only.
All staff members will see their Accrued time in the Earned and Taken section in Leave Details.
Feedback
If you have any technical issues with mySwarthmore please submit a ticket via the ITS Support Portal at
support.swarthmore.edu
or directly with AIS at
aissupport@swarthmore.edu.
If you have any issues with content on mySwarthmore, please see the FAQs for the appropriate contact.