Title: Notability
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20775622
Version: 8
---

Description
Powerful PDF annotator and note-taking app. Also serves well as a digital whiteboard.
Access
Faculty & Staff
Platform
MAC
Yellow
ios
Purple
Description
Notability
is a powerful app for annotating PDFs or note-taking with an Apple Pencil or stylus. This app works great for annotating annotating over assignments or grading. It also serves well as a digital whiteboard as it lets you combine handwriting, photos, typing, and or audio into a document or project. You can integrate it with Google Drive to switch back and forth between your iOS and macOS devices. Notability can back up your notes to Google Drive as well by
turning on Auto-Backup
in settings.
Downloading Notability
If you have a College-owned iPad, you can install Notability on your iPad by going to the
Jamf Self Service app
and clicking
Install
next to the Notability app.
Sample Grading Workflow With Notability
Notability is widely used among faculty for grading and annotating Moodle assignments. Below is sample workflow for grading with Notability and Moodle.
Collect student work through a Moodle assignment
On a computer, download all student files from Moodle in a zip file, unzip the file, and copy the files to Google Drive or Dropbox.
On the iPad Pro, open the files from Google Drive or Dropbox, and mark up as needed.
Save the modified file back to Google Drive or Dropbox.
On a computer, zip all the marked-up files and upload them back to Moodle
Physics and Astronomy Professor Eric Jensen made a
video walkthrough of this method
and generously shared it with us.
Support Documentation
Notability has a robust support page with
step-by-step guides
to get you started. Below are a few links from their support page to help you get set up. For further help, visit their
support page
.
Notability Dashboard Library
Notability Settings
Create and Edit Notes
Subjects and Dividers
Handwriting, Sketching, and Math Conversion
Media, Images, and Web Clips
Moving Notes to a New Device or a New Apple ID