Title: Posit Cloud
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/250511361
Version: 7
---

Description
Web-based version of RStudio statistical software
Access
Everyone
Platform
WEB
Red
Description
Posit Cloud is a web-based version of the RStudio software.
Documentation is available at
docs.posit.co/cloud
Access
Posit Cloud has a free tier available for personal use. This is usually sufficient for infrequent or quick use.
For classes, faculty can be set up with a “Cloud Instructor” license to allow for higher usage limits.
Login at
login.posit.cloud
using your Swarthmore email. You will be sent to Swarthmore’s login page for authentication.
Faculty
To use Posit Cloud for a class, contact ITS to request an instructor account.
It is usually most effective to create a separate Posit Cloud space for each course to add students, create assignments, and share files. When setting up your space, make sure to use the Swarthmore College organizational account and not your personal account. Click on your name at the top right and then click on “Swarthmore College.”
Faculty using Posit Cloud for a class should use their Swarthmore College Organizational Account
Help documentation for instructors is available at
docs.posit.co/cloud/guide/teach
Invite your students to your class space via a special link
using the instructions from Posit
. It is possible to manually add students to a space, but must be done one-by-one, so the link is easier.  Students are set up as “Contributors” - they can create and manage their own projects, but not see other students' projects.
Students
You can work on Posit Cloud for free on personal projects. If you are taking a class that uses Posit Cloud, your professor will share a class link for access to the paid version. Once your class is complete, you can continue to use the free version of Posit Cloud with your Swarthmore account.
Need more power?
If Posit Cloud does not have enough computing resources for your needs, RStudio is installed on Swarthmore’s high performance computing cluster:
Running RStudio on Firebird