Title: Qualtrics
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20775031
Version: 16
---

Description
Online survey tool
Access
Everyone
Platform
WEB
Red
Qualtrics is a full-featured online survey tool that can be used to create and distribute online surveys. Qualtrics
is supported by most of the top colleges and universities in the country and offers a simple, easy to understand interface, along with the power and flexibility of the best online survey tools. Qualtrics is available to all members of Swarthmore community and has been used for faculty and student research, informal polls, online voting for committees, order forms, and course evaluations.
Getting Started
Anyone with a Swarthmore account can log into Qualtrics with the Swarthmore username and password at
https://swarthmore.qualtrics.com
.
New faculty and staff users can get started creating and distributing surveys right away.
New student users will have an account automatically created and can get started on creating a survey right away. Students do, however, require faculty approval to distribute surveys.
Help From Qualtrics
Qualtrics has good online help available. Swarthmore subscribes to the
Survey Platform
, which is packaged as part of the
XM
(or eXperience Management) Platform. These
Qualtrics Guides
will teach you all you need to know to get started. They include recorded trainings and survey building activities.
Projects
As you login to Qualtrics, you’ll arrive at the
Projects
page. The Projects page lets you:
scroll through your projects,
create new ones,
and view your survey related data.
The Projects page is an organizational tool that you’ll learn to optimize in this
Projects Basic Overview
.
Survey Tab
The
Survey
tab lets you design, build, and edit surveys. Here you’ll create insightful questions, add logic, deploy validation, apply a look and feel that will engage your participants, and highlight your brand. Learn how to build effective surveys in this
Survey Basic Overview
.
Actions Tab
The
Actions
tab reacts to live survey responses with a variety of tasks, like response tickets, email responses, Salesforce triggers, and more. An unhappy response can trigger a high priority ticket to your support center and fire a trigger to Salesforce. A student request for Biology tutoring can trigger a message to a department’s tutorial team. Learn more in this
Actions Basic Overview
.
Distributions Tab
The
Distributions
tab lets you pick from a wide variety of distribution channels. Choose the most effective distribution for your audience: email, mobile device, SMS, QR code™, anonymous link, or an appropriate social media channel. Learn how in this
Distributions Basic Overview
.
Data & Analysis Tab
The
Data & Analysis
tab manages and analyzes participant responses. The tab hosts six powerful sections:
Data,
Text,
Stats iQ,
Predict iQ,
Crosstabs,
and Weighting.
(If you have an Stats iQ section, this means you have the Stats iQ product. Be sure to check out the
Stats iQ Basic Overview
support page for details on this section.) From these tools you can view, filter, tag, edit, translate, weight, and delete responses. You can review text analytics, apply cross tabulations, import and export responses, and more. Learn more in this
Data and Analysis Basic Overview
.
Reports Tab
The
Reports
tab lets you present the insights you’ve gathered with powerful visualizations, graphs, tables, charts, and more. This tab lets you filter data, pages, and visualizations to create custom report pages for many potential and different audiences. Investigate your Results-Reports in the
Results-Reports Basic Overview
and your Advanced-Reports in the
Advanced-Reports Basic Overview
. For differences between Results-Reports and Advanced-Reports, visit the
Results vs. Reports
support page.
Contacts Page
Create contact lists on the
Contacts
page. Often called panels, lists can be created by yourself or purchased from a panels provider. Lists can be used to authenticate respondents. You can also embed (or store) data about each participant in your lists. Embedded Data helps create more powerful reports. Check out this
XM Directory Lite Basic Overview
.
Library Page
The
Library
page lets you store pre-made surveys, templates, graphics, pre-written messages, and other files. Pull these files out of your library whenever you need them! You could even share your library’s questions and graphics with others. Learn how in this
Library Basic Overview
.
Additional Qualtrics Support
Qualtrics Support
has over 100 articles with videos, step-by-step guides and tips ready to answer any question you can think of.
Experts have also written a few
Free eBooks
that are available for download. Be sure to check them out as they cover everything about Qualtrics and provide an introduction to Market Research concepts.
Swarthmore's support contract with Qualtrics allows users to contact Qualtrics online, by email, or by phone to get help with surveys.  In addition, you can contact
support@swarthmore.edu
and one of our Academic Technologists will assist you.
Help from Swarthmore
ITS has a
Qualtrics help page
to answer questions we've encountered.
Qualtrics Retention Policy
Swarthmore College will maintain Qualtrics user accounts for up to one year after an individual has left the College. Please see our
Qualtrics Retention Policy
page for more details.
Alternatives
For very simple surveys,
Google Forms
and
SurveyMonkey
are possible alternatives.  Compared with Qualtrics, they are limited, but simpler to learn and use.
For surveys or evaluations that you will administer to an academic class, the questionnaire activity in
Moodle
is useful because it is set up to limit access to people enrolled in the class.
You can also visit the
Survey Research Tools
page on Swarthmore's Institutional Research department for more information.
Other Information
Another great resource is the College's Institutional Research team. Please consult with Institutional Research (IR) before you begin any work that might overlap or duplicate existing surveys of the campus population.  In particular, you might want to check out their
surveys at Swarthmore resources
page, which contains information and links to best practices, frequently asked questions, alternatives to surveys, the institutional review board, discussion of privacy concerns, survey research tools, sample surveys, and other information. If you are thinking of administering a survey to Swarthmore students, you should visit the Institutional Research page on
upcoming surveys
to avoid conflicts with other scheduled surveys.  The IR site also has a link to register your own survey with IR.
If you are conducting research using human subjects, you will want to be aware of the
Institutional Review Board
and its policies.