Title: Step 1: Setting Up a Domain of One's Own
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20775064
Version: 21
---

Submit Interest Form Request
Go to
domains.swarthmore.edu
Click the
Get Started
Button
You will be redirected to login for verification. Use your Swarthmore username and password to log in.
If you don’t already have a Domain of One’s account, you’ll be prompted to fill out our interest request form. The form will prompt you to let us know more about your project. Currently, students are only able to use DoOO when it's for a class, program, or if they have a faculty/staff sponsor.
After you submit the interest form, a support ticket for your request will be made. You’ll then receive a follow up email from ITS about how to proceed next.
After Interest Form Request Is Approved
Once you receive an approval email from ITS you can now set up your subdomain name and begin installing web applications by following the steps below.
Go back to
domains.swarthmore.edu
Click the "Get Started" button
Log in with your Swarthmore account
Choose a unique subdomain name
for your website
Begin to
install web applications
Choosing Your Domain Name
Choosing your domain name is the first step in getting started with staking your claim on the web. Your domain name is a unique web address (e.g. http://yourname.domains.swarthmore.edu) that can be used to build out your own digital presence. If you already have a domain name using a different service but still would like to take advantage of options available within DoOO, please contact us at
support@swarthmore.edu
.  If you would like to create a subdomain within
http://domains.swarthmore.edu
please continue.
As you make your choice, there are a few considerations to keep in mind:
Your Domain Name Must Be Available
:
Domain names must be unique, which means in order for you to claim your own, you need to be sure that it is currently available (and not being used by anyone else at Swarthmore). There are lots of tools to check on domain availability, and when you sign up on
domains.swarthmore.edu
, we’ll check the availability of your choice for you.
Choose a Domain You Can Live With
:
Choose a domain name that you feel you can live with for quite some time.
Important note:
You should pick something that you won’t find embarrassing in the future
.
A good rule of thumb is to pick a domain that you would be comfortable putting on a resume or job application.
You May Wish to Include Your Name in Your Domain
:
There is no requirement that your domain reflects your specific identity in the form of your first and last name. However, choosing a domain name that includes your name may make it easier for you to achieve higher rankings in search engines when someone queries your real name.
Pick a Domain you Like
:
At the end of the day, your domain should reflect you. Pick a domain you like and are proud of. It can reflect your interests, sports you play, or your hobby. Or it could just be your name. The “right” domain for you is the one you’re comfortable with.
Privacy
You can choose not to pick a domain that reveals your name, or you can use a pseudonym on your actual site. However, if you choose to later purchase your own domain (e.g. mysite.org), your name does get published as part of the public record about your domain name. Anyone can find it by looking up details about the ownership of that domain name through a public “Whois” request. This is NOT an issue if you’re already planning on using your name openly on your site (in your domain name or elsewhere). This option is aimed, specifically, at those who, for whatever reason, feel they want to take every precaution to hide their identity on their site.
Next Steps: Install Web Applications
Domain of One’s Own has several web applications you can install onto our web server. Please go to our
Install Web Applications
help page to learn how to install onto your CPanel.
What Exactly is a Web Application?
In the most general terms, a web application is a software that runs on a web server. A web server is a designated computer set up to host web pages.  When installed, web applications create an environment that allows users to build websites.
The applications you install will determine what kind of website you will ultimately build.
Most web applications are comprised of two components: files and a database. When you install a web application, you will need to make sure all of the files are copied over into the appropriate location AND that a database (and database user) has been set up to connect to those files. Often, you will have to do some configuration to make sure the application knows how to access the database.
The system we use for
domains.swarthmore.edu
uses a special script installer called Installatron (in cPanel) that allows you to automatically install dozens of open source applications. When you use Installatron, you don’t need to worry about moving files, creating databases, or doing the initial configuration. It’s all taken care of for you.