Title: Using a Co Host
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20910751
Version: 11
---

The co-host feature allows the host to share hosting privileges with another user, allowing the co-host to manage the administrative side of the meeting, such as managing participants or starting/stopping the recording. The host must assign a co-host. There is no limitation on the number of co-hosts you can have in a meeting or webinar.
An Alternative Host will become a Co-host when they are signed into a Zoom meeting with their Swarthmore credentials. You can add an
Alternative Host
ahead of time when scheduling a meeting.
Adding a co-host during a meeting
Once in the meeting, the Host can add anyone in the meeting as a Co-host in multiple ways.
The Host can either right-click on the user's video or hover over the user's video and select the three dots icon, then select
Make Co-host
.
The Host can also click on the
Participants
icon at the bottom of the window. The Host can hover their mouse over the participant, select
More
, then select
Make Co-host
.
Co-Host capabilities:
Mute/Unmute All: mute/unmute all participants in meeting - you will be given the option (checkbox) to allow or not allow participants to unmute
Lock Screen sharing: by selecting lock screen sharing, other participants will not be able to share their screen
Mute on Entry: participants will automatically mute as they enter the meeting
Play Enter/Exit Chime: plays a sound as participants join and leave the meeting
Lock meeting: you can lock your meeting so that no other participants may join
Stop Video: stop participant's video stream (unable to start video)
Remove: you can kick/boot participant(s) from the meeting
Rename: rename the attendee name selection
Admit or place a participant in the
Waiting Room
Things co-hosts can NOT do:
Co-hosts do not have access to the following controls, as they are only available as host controls in a meeting:
Start
closed captioning
and assign someone or a third-party to provide closed captioning
Start live streaming
End meeting for all participants
Make another participant a co-host
Start
waiting room
(co-hosts can place participants in waiting room or admit/remove participants from the waiting room)
Co-hosts also cannot start a meeting. If a host needs someone else to be able to start the meeting, they can assign an
alternative host
.
More information about zoom co-hosts can be found at
https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/206330935-Enabling-and-adding-a-co-host