Title: Zoom Participants Guide
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20910233
Version: 10
---

This is a short list of simple instructions to pass along to the people you invite to your Zoom meeting.
What Participants Need To Get Started
· An internet connected computer, laptop, or mobile device
· Your meeting ID # or link
· A webcam, computer microphone, optional headphones or earbuds (to help cut down on background noise and avoid any feedback or echo noises)
· A phone (if you’re unable to receive audio via your computer, laptop, or device)
How to Launch Zoom and Participate in a Meeting
When you’re invited to participate in a Zoom meeting, you’ll receive instructions similar to what you see below. You can either click on the link provided or go to the Zoom website at
http://swarthmore.zoom.us/
and click on
“Join a Meeting”
where you can enter the 9 or 10-digit Meeting ID number. Audio is integrated into the meeting. However, you have the option to participate via audio-only if a web-connected device is not available.
While You’re Waiting for the Meeting to Begin
You’ll be presented with a screen that says,
"Waiting for the host to start this meeting,"
if the host hasn’t started the meeting at the time you join. We recommend that you check your audio settings while waiting for the meeting to start.
Furthermore, if you are in a noisy environment or in a room with more than one person, it may be best to use headphones or earbuds to avoid any audio feedback.
Join By Computer Audio
Once you join the meeting you will be asked whether you want to join using your computer audio or join by using your phone.
If you’re using your computer microphone you
MUST
click the button to join audio by computer. No one on the call will be able to hear you until you click this button.
If for some reason you do not see this window pop up, look for the small arrow on the bottom left in the toolbar asking you to
"Join Audio"
.
If your computer does not have a microphone you can join by phone using one of the toll numbers given to you in the invite.
Audio Settings
By clicking on the small caret next to the microphone icon, you can choose your microphone and speaker settings. It normally defaults to your built-in microphone and speakers but you can select any other microphone or speakers you have plugged into your computer.
Video Settings
By clicking on the small caret next to the camera icon, you can choose which video camera you want to use.
Audio and Video Mute and Unmute
During a session, you might be asked to mute your microphone until you have a question or comment.
This helps to minimize background noise and audio feedback. Mute your audio by clicking on the microphone icon located in the lower left-hand corner of the menu bar. You can mute your video by clicking on the camera icon as well.
For more instructions to give to your participants click the link below:
https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us