Title: Zoom AI Companion
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/443023381
Version: 2
---

The Zoom AI Companion feature can automatically take meeting minutes and allow attendees to ask questions about the meeting content. This feature is particularly useful for latecomers to catch up on what they've missed. Zoom can generate a meeting summary of key points, decisions, and action items and email it to the host and optionally to attendees.
Setting up
The Zoom AI Companion is off by default, but any Swarthmore Licensed user hosting a meeting can enable it.
To enable in-meeting AI questions
Log into
https://swarthmore.zoom.us
Click on
Settings
(left menu)
Click on the
AI Companion
tab
Enable the
Allow users to ask AI Companion questions about the meeting
option
To receive post-meeting summaries, enable the
Meeting summary with AI Companion
option.
The AI Companion tab also has options about automatically starting the AI companion, permissions, and meeting summary settings.
When the AI Companion is turned on in a meeting there will be an AI Companion button on the bottom toolbar and an animated AI "sparkle" symbol at the top of the window.  If enabled for participants, they will see a popup notification.
For transparency, ITS recommends that the host of the meeting let attendees know when the AI Companion is enabled for a meeting.
AI Accuracy
AI systems are not perfect and may sometimes generate inaccurate or biased information. As a result, the quality of meeting summaries could vary. Be sure to review the content carefully before relying on it.
Privacy and Security
Zoom does
not
train their AI models on data from Swarthmore's Zoom meetings:
How Zoom AI Companion features handle your data
. However, we advise against enabling the Zoom AI Companion when discussing High Risk (Confidential) data per Swarthmore's
Administrative Information Classification system
.
If you are a meeting participant, the AI Companion button on the bottom toolbar and the animated AI "sparkle" symbol at the top of the window will alert you that the Zoom AI Companion is enabled.