Title: Zoom Meeting Privacy Options
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/20909649
Version: 19
---

The following information provides suggested settings for creating a private Zoom session and steps to reduce the possibility of unwelcome guests joining a meeting or webinar.
If you experience an unwanted participant or concerning incident using Zoom, please get in touch with ITS at
support@swarthmore.edu
and let us know.
Update Zoom
Keep your Zoom application up-to-date to take advantage of security and bug fixes.  The Zoom desktop application will provide a pop-up notification when an update is available.  Do not wait to install the update.
You can manually check for updates in the Zoom desktop application:
Click your profile picture in the app (not in your profile page), then click
Check for Updates
.
If there is a newer version, Zoom will download and install it.
You can also
check Zoom's support page for other update options
.
Setting up your Zoom session securely
Don't Make the Zoom Meeting Information Publicly Available
If the link or phone number for a Zoom meeting is published online, anyone in the world can use that information to join (and possibly disrupt) the meeting.  If "Enable Join Before Host" and "Record the Meeting Automatically" are set, anyone can start your meeting at any time and make recordings.
You can put the meeting link in a Moodle course, share it via email, or using Google Docs.  Keeping the Zoom meeting information private eliminates most concerns with unwanted attendees.
Disable "Join Before Host"
The join before host option can be convenient for allowing attendees to carry on with a meeting the host is not able to start. However, with this option enabled, the first attendee who joins the meeting will be made the host automatically with full control over the meeting. We recommend leaving this option
disabled
. This feature is also a problem if you have auto-recording turned on. Students who click on the link outside of class hours just to test Zoom would create a brief recording each time.
While scheduling a meeting, under Meeting Options, select that the 'Join before host' toggle is turned OFF. See Zoom's
Join Before Host
help page for more information.
Meeting Passwords
Requiring a password to access a Zoom session is a straightforward way to increase the security of your meeting. You can send your chosen password to your attendees via email or chat, but be sure to remind them not to share the password with others.
While scheduling a meeting, under
Meeting Options
, check
Require Meeting Password
, and then specify a strong password. Participants will be asked for this password in order to join your meeting.
Meeting Security When Scheduling Via Google Calendar
If you add or create a Zoom meeting using Google Calendar or any other calendar, note that the calendar entry may include the meeting password. If your calendar is viewable by others, we recommend making the meeting entry private or editing the details to remove the password.
To
change your Google Calendar event privacy settings
, while your calendar entry is open in Google Calendar, c
lick
Default
visibility
and choose
Private
from the dropdown menu, then click
Save
.
Security During a Meeting
Zoombombing
"Zoombombing" is when an individual that is not meant to be a part of your meeting gains access to your Zoom session and causes a disturbance. This can include making noise or using offensive language, posting offensive things in the chat, or screen sharing offensive images. If this kind of behavior happens during one of your sessions, please contact
support@swarthmore.edu
and let us know. There are ways to prevent Zoombombing or to remove individuals who partake in this behavior. The rest of this section details some of those options and settings to help ensure you have safe and productive sessions.
Removing an Unwanted Participant
If you have already begun a session and find an unwanted attendee has joined:
Click
Manage Participants
at the bottom of the Zoom window. In the Participants panel, click
More
next to the person you want to remove. From the list that appears, click
Remove
. The participant is no longer in the Zoom session.
Lock Your Session
You may choose to lock your meeting session once all your attendees have joined using the
Zoom Host Controls
. When a meeting is locked, no additional users can join, and the host will NOT be alerted if anyone tries to join.
Click
Manage Participants
at the bottom of the Zoom window. Click
More
at the bottom of the Participants panel. From the list that appears, click
Lock Meeting
.
Changing Sharing Settings
The default screen sharing setting is set to
Host Only
for all Swarthmore Zoom accounts. This setting means the host is the only one permitted to share their screen during the meeting, which eliminates the possibility that another participant can share offensive content. Hosts still have the ability to allow participants to share their screen during a meeting and edit their default settings to allow participants to share in all meetings.
To change once in the meeting, click the arrow next to
Share Screen
. Click
Advanced Sharing Options
then click the radio button for
All Participants
.
More Recommendations From Zoom
How to Keep Uninvited Guests Out of Your Zoom Event
Information on this page has been borrowed from the
Office of Teaching, Learning & Technology at the University of Iowa
.