Title: Adding and Editing an Appointment Schedule in Google Calendar
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GA/pages/19660872
Version: 9
---

Creating a new appointment schedule
You can only create an appointment schedule while viewing your calendar in the Day or Week views. Make sure you are viewing your calendar in a web browser on a computer and not using the Calendar mobile app.
Highlight the block of time you wish to turn into appointment slots.
When the event window pops up, choose “
Appointment schedule
” out of the row of options below “
Add title”
. The event window will change.
Enter a title, and select the date and time range you would like to begin with.
Select
“Set up the Schedule”
to bring up a new window.
Under
“Appointment duration”,
the default will be to have multiple slots set to 30 minutes apiece. You can change the duration of each slot using the dropdown menu.
Set the duration you want your time slots to be and choose what calendar you want your appointment slots to be on (the default is your personal calendar). Set your desired availability for different days of the week.
In this window, you can also set limits to your scheduling window (how much notice you require) and adjust availability for specific dates. You can also add co-hosts and adjust other permissions under
“Booked appointment settings”
.
Click
“Next”
to add more information such as location or description. Then click “
Save”
.
Invite others to reserve an appointment slot
Once your appointment slots are saved, click on the block of time again to see the event detail pop-up.
In the pop-up, click the link that says
“Open booking page”.
A new page will open in another tab in your browser. That new page is what others will use in order to schedule one of the slots you just created.
Copy and paste the appointment page URL link from your web browser.
Share the URL link for that page with anyone you want to have access to your appointment calendar.
As a note: when you look at the appointment slot page for your calendar, you will also see all of your other appointments and events - that is because you are the calendar owner. Others will only be able to see what they have been given permission to see, which may only include the appointment slots you've created.
Tips and helpful information
More than one person will be able to reserve a single block of time if it has not been approved by you yet.
A scheduled time slot is only officially approved when you respond
yes
to the meeting request.
Both you and the individual can change your meeting response to
no
, or delete the meeting, at any time.
This removes the time slot for the individual you are meeting and opens that time slot back up on your calendar.
You can edit appointment slots at any time the same way you edit events on your calendar.
All edits made to your appointment slots are automatically reflected on the appointment slot page for your calendar, so you do not need to re-share the link to your potential attendees.