Title: Setting up Android OS for Swarthmore Gmail and Google Workspace
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GA/pages/19660981
Version: 9
---

true
BLOCK
Configuring mail and calendar with Android OS.
Gmail and Google Calendar apps for Android
Our recommended solution is to download and use the Gmail and Google Calendar apps from the Google Play Store. These apps are free and offer more integration with Gmail than the built-in apps. Since your Android is a Google device, chances are you already have these apps.
Gmail app:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.gm&hl=en
Google Calendar app:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.calendar&hl=en
Add a New Account
Once you add a Google account to your Android device, all Google apps will be able to access it.
Open the Settings app on your device.
Choose
Accounts and Backup
, then
Accounts
or choose
Passwords, passkeys & accounts
(depending on your Android device type/software version).
Tap
Add Account
- you may have to scroll to the bottom of your list of current accounts.
Choose the account type. For your Swarthmore account choose
Google
.
You may be prompted to enter your device password for security.
At the Google sign-in page, enter your full Swarthmore email address. And tap
Continue
.
You will be brought to the Swarthmore login page. Enter your Swarthmore credentials.
You will be prompted to authenticate with Duo. Choose your preferred method to do so.
If you have authenticated with Duo recently, Duo may skip ahead and automatically authorize you.
You will be asked what you want to sync with your device. Make sure Calendar and Gmail are on. You can choose to have the other options on or off as you need.
You can change the items you sync at any time by going back into the
Accounts
section, tapping your Swarthmore account, and then
Sync Account
.
Update Your Password
Gmail Update PW
INLINE
The next time you open any Google app on your mobile device, Google will tell you it has encountered a problem and ask you to sign back in.
Tap to sign in to your Google account and you will be prompted to enter an email address.
Type in your full Swarthmore email address and click
Continue
.
You will be brought to the usual Swarthmore login screen. Enter your Swarthmore username and password.
You will be prompted to authenticate with Duo. Choose your preferred method to do so.
If you have authenticated with Duo recently, Duo may skip ahead and automatically authorize you.
If login is successful, you will be brought back to your Gmail app on your mobile device.
Switch Between Gmail Accounts
If you have more than one Gmail account, messages on the Gmail app stay separate for each account. To switch between accounts:
Open the Gmail app.
At the top-right, tap your current account image.
Choose the account you want to switch to from the list.