Title: Subscribing to Google Calendars
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/GA/pages/19660812
Version: 5
---

2
Adding Calendars
In Google Calendar you are able to "subscribe" to calendars, which means you can add other calendars to your default view and have changes made to those calendars automatically update for you. Below is how you add a new calendar subscription:
In the left-hand navigation find the section called
Other calendars
- located underneath the
My calendars
section
Click the plus
+
icon next to
Other Calendars
You are presented with 6 options to choose from
The section below describes each of the 6 options and how to set them up.
Different subscription options
Subscribe to Calendar
This option requires an email address to be entered. If an individual allows you to see their calendar by default, you can enter their email here to add their calendar to your list for quick reference.
Create new calendar
Create a new sub-calendar that you own. You may want to do this if you want to share a schedule of events with a group without giving others access to your personal calendar.
Browse resources
Some departments have calendars that are owned and managed by Swarthmore instead of an individual. This protects group calendars from getting deleted if the individual who created/owns it leaves the college. This list will only include shared calendars you already have permission to view, not all shared calendars that exist.
Browse calendars of interest
Google Calendar has a pre-made list of calendars that you can subscribe to. They mostly consist of religious and regional holidays and popular sports schedules. Just check the box next to all of the calendars you want to add.
From URL
Some calendars have a URL (or link) available that you can use to view and reference it, such as iCal format calendars. If a calendar you would like to follow offers an iCal subscription link, enter it here to add the calendar. Any updates made will reflect on your calendar.
Import
You can import a calendar file into Google Calendar. You can choose to add these events to any calendar you can edit that already exists. The only two supported file formats are iCal (.ics) and CSV at this time. Any updates made to a calendar after a calendar file is created and imported with NOT be reflected on your calendar.
Subscribing to the Swarthmore academic calendar
Swarthmore has a calendar with all of the important academic dates, such as when residence halls open, start and end of semesters, and important due dates for students.
Click the plus
+
icon to add a calendar
Choose the
From URL
option
Copy and paste in this URL:
webcal://25livepub.collegenet.com/calendars/swarthmore-college-events.ics?mixin=362486
Click
Add calendar
The academic calendar will be added under your
Other calendars
section. You can now change the color to whatever you'd like and hide or unhide it as needed.