Title: Incoming Students Starting Remotely
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSDOCS/pages/20382931
Version: 7
---

2
Swarthmore Account
Student Accounts
Setting Your First Password
Set First PW
For instructions on how to reset your password in the future, please visit our
Password Reset instructions page
.
Duo Two-Factor Authentication
Duo Intro
Swarthmore Virtual Private Network (VPN)
ExplainVPN
How to Install the Swarthmore VPN
VPN Install
Logging Into the Swarthmore VPN
Below are the instructions for how to connect to the Swarthmore VPN from a macOS or Windows computer. For more information on how to connect to the Swarthmore VPN from other devices, please see our
VPN and Off-Campus Access page
.
VPN Connect
Anti-Virus Protection
Antivirus
Information Security
Keeping your account and data secure is very important. Using Duo, the Swarthmore VPN, and having up-to-date anti-virus protection is only a small part of a number of things you can do to ensure you keep your data secure. Please check our page on
how to work and learn safely while remote
. Please also check out our
tips for better wifi
.
Zoom
Zoom video conferencing with a pro license is available for all Swarthmore students. You can use this service to attend remote classes, meet with study groups, or virtually attend various campus events. You can access Zoom via the web at
swarthmore.zoom.us
or download the desktop or mobile applications. For more information on Zoom please visit our
Zoom Video Conferencing page
.
Software
Swarthmore provides software for download to assist our students in their learning. You can browse and install available software from our
Software Installation page
.
Please note that not all software listed on our installation page is available for students to download. Check the
Access
column - if it lists
Students
or
Everyone
it is available for student download. Make sure to also check the
Platform
column to ensure the software is compatible with your computer's operating system.