Title: Incoming Students Starting On-Campus
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSDOCS/pages/20382955
Version: 3
---

Please make sure you are familiar with the college’s current
plans for the upcoming academic year
. Please also check out
Frequently Asked Questions for Students, Parents, and Families
.
2
Swarthmore Account
Student Accounts
Setting Your First Password
Set First PW
For instructions on how to reset your password in the future, please visit our
Password Reset instructions page
.
Duo Two-Factor Authentication
Duo Intro
Connecting to Campus Wi-Fi (eduroam)
Connecting to eduroam
eduroam connect
After connecting to the eduroam wifi network for the first time on a computer, you will need to install the Swarthmore Policy Key. To do so, please follow the Register Your Computer directions below.
Register Your Computer
Register SafeConnect
Register Gaming or Other Devices
SwatDevice Registration
For more information, tips on how to find your device’s MAC address, and examples of the kind of devices that require this type of registration, please visit our
Gaming and Device Registration page
.
Anti-Virus Protection
Antivirus
Zoom
Zoom video conferencing with a pro license is available for all Swarthmore students. You can use this service to attend remote classes, meet with study groups, or virtually attend various campus events. You can access Zoom via the web at
swarthmore.zoom.us
or download the desktop or mobile applications. For more information on Zoom please visit our
Zoom Video Conferencing page
.
Software
Swarthmore provides software for download to assist our students in their learning. You can browse and install available software from our
Software Installation page
.
Please note that not all software listed on our installation page is available for students to download. Check the
Access
column - if it lists
Students
or
Everyone
it is available for student download. Make sure to also check the
Platform
column to ensure the software is compatible with your computer's operating system. All of our software is available for use in our public computing spaces on campus.
Printing
Students have printers available to them in each dorm, as well as in areas such as the libraries and some public computing spaces. For more information on printer locations and how to print on-campus please visit our
student printing page
.
Contact the Help Desk
Help Desk Contact Block