Title: Managing Directory Data
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSDOCS/pages/20383045
Version: 7
---

Getting Started
To begin managing your directory information:
Log in to MySwarthmore
using your Swarthmore username and password (requires VPN connection if off-campus)
You should arrive at MySwarthmore’s
Main Menu
screen.
Select
Directory Information
from options.
After updating the appropriate fields (explained in further detail below), click the
Update Your Directory Information
button to apply your changes.
Any changes will be reflected in the online directory after the next hourly update.
About the Available Directory Information Options
Legal Name
- Your legal name forms the basis of how your name will appear by default in both the College website's Campus Directory and the searchable email address lookup in Gmail. This can be overridden by providing
Preferred First
and
Last Names
.
Faculty legal names (including suffixes) are maintained by the Provost’s Office
Staff legal names (including suffixes) are maintained by Human Resources
Student legal names (including suffixes) are maintained by Registrar’s Office
Your Online Swarthmore Directory Information
Your name will display as
- A preview of how a user’s name will be displayed in the Campus Directory.
Directory Email  (Faculty/Staff only)
- Override your Swarthmore email address and display an alternative email address. Note: only @swarthmore.edu, @haverford.edu, or @brynmawr.edu addresses are permitted.
Preferred First Name
- If you specify a preferred first name, it will be displayed in the following ways
Campus Directory – The preferred name will appear in addition to your legal first name. For example: Robert (Bob) Smith.
College website - The preferred name will appear instead of your legal first name. For example: Bob Smith.
Preferred Last Name
- If you indicate a preferred last name, it will be displayed instead of your legal last name.
Note:
At this time,
Preferred First
and
Last Names
do not pass through to Moodle. If you require an adjustment to your name as it's displayed in Moodle, please contact the appropriate data steward:
Students:
registrar@swarthmore.edu
Faculty:
provost@swarthmore.edu
Staff:
hris@swarthmore.edu
Pronoun
- A preview of your pronoun as indicated in
MySwarthmore → Main Menu → General Information →
Personal Information
Include Pronoun in On-Campus Directory?
- Whether to display your pronoun information in the public Campus Directory and College website or not.
Title  (Faculty/Staff only)
- Your Banner derived title.
Faculty titles are maintained by the Provost’s Office
Staff titles are maintained by Human Resources
Your Gmail Searchable Name
- Similar to your Preferred First and Last Name fields in the previous section, these options allow you to set your name as it appears in the searchable email directory within Gmail.
Note: Gmail requires that your searchable name be composed of a first name and a last name. If your desired name is made up of middle name, suffixes, etc., you may need to adjust these fields in order for it to display properly.
Leave Information (Faculty/Staff only)
- Optionally, set your leave status and whether to display that data on the public Campus Directory or College website.
Department(s)
(Faculty/Staff only)
- The default department associated with a user, according to Banner, is displayed at the top of this section. If necessary, these options can be used to override your departmental association, including top-level departments and sub-departments.
Location(s)/Phone(s) (Faculty/Staff only)
Location
Those listed as
On-site
or
Hybrid
employees will be allowed to select a building and room number.
Those listed as
Hybrid
employees will be allowed to select their days on-campus.
Phone
- The phone number assigned to you by ITS. If this number is incorrect please submit a support ticket at
https://support.swarthmore.edu
.
Alt Extension
- Optionally, provide a four digit extension to display instead of your default number. Useful for departments who want all calls to be filtered through a single phone number.
Include Phone/Alt Extension in Directory
- Toggle whether or not to display the
Phone/Alt Extension
value in the Campus Directory/College website.