Title: New Faculty Starting On-Campus
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSDOCS/pages/20383026
Version: 7
---

2
Swarthmore Account
PS
FacStaff Accounts
Setting Your First Password
PS
Set First PW
Duo Two-Factor Authentication
ITSHELP
Duo Intro
Requesting Computers, Equipment, and Services
Discuss with your department chair what computer, peripheral equipment, and access to services you may need for your classes. Some of these can be set up during your account creation, your department chair or AA may be able to grant you access to some services, and some requests may need department approval. Departments can make requests for equipment and services for new faculty through our support portal (
support.swarthmore.edu
). The Service Catalog requires login with a Swarthmore account.
Some common things departments request for new faculty on our support portal include:
Access to department groups/listservs, Drive folders, and calendars
Office phone and number
Computers and peripheral equipment
For additional resources on purchasing a computer, you can check out our guide on
buying a computer
.
Once services are set up for you, such as office phones, you will receive notifications at your Swarthmore email address. Please make sure you check there for updates and further instructions. If you requested physical equipment we will coordinate how to get that equipment to you through the request process.
If you need assistive technology or equipment, please review the Human Resources page for
Faculty and Staff Disability Resources
.
Connect to the Swarthmore Wi-Fi (eduroam)
You can connect to the campus Wi-Fi, eduroam, using the steps below.
IAA
eduroam connect
IAA
Register SafeConnect
For more information on connecting mobile devices such as Android devices, you can visit our
wireless internet access page
.
Accessing Moodle
Logging into Moodle
Moodle is a learning platform designed to provide educators and learners with a single robust, secure, and integrated system to create personalized learning environments.
All courses and enrollments have been entered into Moodle, so instructors can log in and get started on their courses right away.
Go to
moodle.swarthmore.edu
Click on the "Log in" button and log in with your Swarthmore username and password
If you have courses available, they will be shown in the middle of the screen.   Click on a course to enter it.
In a course, click the "Turn Editing On" button (top right) to begin adding content.
See below for more Moodle resources.
Start of the Semester Resources
For information on Moodle, including advanced tips, please check out our
Moodle documentation
.
Zoom
Zoom video conferencing with a pro license is available for all faculty. You will use this service to provide virtual class access and attend meetings. You can access Zoom via the web at
swarthmore.zoom.us
or download the desktop or mobile applications. For more information on Zoom please visit our
Zoom Video Conferencing page
.
Software
The most commonly used software should already be loaded onto any college-issued computer you receive, but if you need additional software you can see what is available to download from our
software installation page
.
If there is software you need that is not on our installer page, please consult with our
Academic Technology department
.
Contact the Help Desk
ITSHELP
Help Desk Contact Block