Title: New Staff Starting Remotely
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSDOCS/pages/20382992
Version: 7
---

2
Swarthmore Account
PS
FacStaff Accounts
Setting Your First Password
PS
Set First PW
Duo Two-Factor Authentication
ITSHELP
Duo Intro
Requesting Computers, Equipment, and Services
Discuss with your supervisor what computer, peripheral equipment, and access to services you may need. Some of these can be set up during your account creation, your supervisor may be able to grant you access to some services, and some requests may need department approval. Departments can request equipment and services for new staff through our support portal (
support.swarthmore.edu
). The Service Catalog requires login with a Swarthmore account.
Some everyday things departments request for new staff on our support portal include:
Access to department groups/listservs, Drive folders, and calendars
Office phone and number
Computers and peripheral equipment
For additional resources on purchasing a computer, you can check out our guide on
buying a computer
.
Once services are set up for you, such as office phones, you will receive notifications at your Swarthmore email address. Please make sure you check there for updates and further instructions. If you requested physical equipment, we would coordinate how to get that equipment to you through the request process.
If you need assistive technology or equipment, please review the Human Resources page for
Faculty and Staff Disability Resources
.
Swarthmore Virtual Private Network (VPN)
PS
ExplainVPN
How to Install the Swarthmore VPN
PS
VPN Install
Connecting to the Swarthmore VPN
#00000000
20382587
VPN Desktop Login
Information Security
Keeping your account and data secure is very important. Using Duo, the Swarthmore VPN, and having up-to-date anti-virus protection are only a few things you can do to keep your data safe. Please check our page on
how to work and learn safely while remote
. Please also check out our
tips for better Wi-Fi
.
Zoom
Zoom video conferencing is available for all staff. You will use this service to provide virtual class access and attend meetings. You can access Zoom via the web at
swarthmore.zoom.us
or download the desktop or mobile applications. For more information on Zoom, please visit our
Zoom Video Conferencing page
.
Software
The most commonly used software should already be loaded onto any college-issued computer you receive. Still, if you need additional software, you can see what is available to download from our
software installation page
.
Contact the Help Desk
ITSHELP
Help Desk Contact Block