Title: Swarthmore Summer Scholars Program
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ITSDOCS/pages/20382877
Version: 13
---

This page includes technology resources for individuals participating in the Swarthmore Summer Scholars Program. For more detailed information about the program, please visit the
Summer Scholars Program page
. For general information geared towards all new and incoming students please visit our
New Students page
.
Setting up Your Swarthmore Account
Getting an Account
PS
Student Accounts
Setting Your First Password
PS
Set First PW
For more information, visit our
Resetting Passwords page
.
Setting Up Duo Two-Factor Authentication
ITSHELP
Duo Intro
Accessing Resources from Off-Campus - VPN
Some resources available to students may require Swarthmore VPN to access - especially if you are trying to access them from an off-campus location. Swarthmore provides the Cisco AnyConnect VPN client for all students so these resources can be accessed as needed from anywhere.
VPN, or Virtual Private Network, also adds a layer of protection to your online activity. If you are going to be learning remotely or need to access sensitive information while using a public WiFi network you can use the Swarthmore VPN to add some extra security. If you would like to learn more about our VPN you can visit the
VPN and Off-Campus Access page
.
How to Install the Swarthmore VPN
PS
VPN Install
Software
Swarthmore provides software for download to assist our students in their learning. You can browse and install available software from our
Software Installation page
.
Please note that not all software listed on our installation page is available for students to download. Check the
Access
column - if it lists
Students
or
Everyone
it is available for student download. Make sure to also check the
Platform
column to make sure the software is compatible with your computer's operating system. All of our software is available for use in our public computing spaces on campus.
Microsoft Office
As part of the Summer Scholars Program, you will be given access to the Microsoft Office 365 suite.  For more information on how to access the suite and get it set up properly, please refer to this website (you will need to create your own Microsoft account with your @swarthmore.edu email) Microsoft Office 365 --contact the Service Desk if you need assistance
support.swarthmore.edu
.
Learning Remotely
For those participating in remote classes, you can find more information on available resources by visiting our
Learning Remotely resource page
, as well as our
general remote resources page
.
Zoom Video Conferencing
Zoom video conferencing with a pro license is available for all Swarthmore students. You can use this service to attend remote classes, meet with study groups, or virtually attend various campus events. You can access Zoom via the web at
swarthmore.zoom.us
or download the desktop or mobile applications. For more information on Zoom please visit our
Zoom Video Conferencing page
.
LinkedIn Learning
All students also have access to LinkedIn Learning via the college at
linkedin.swarthmore.edu
. LinkedIn Learning has a vast library of videos that provide online learning options for various subjects. You can learn more about programs or subjects you are covering in class, learn how to handle stress or better manage your time, and also find tips on writing resumes and preparing for job interviews. You can check out our current collection for students, which includes
helpful video resources for learning remotely
.
Contact the Help Desk
b93c0157-a277-47b5-bfe8-e6de5c523409
ITSHELP
Help Desk Contact Block