Title: Gaming and Device Registration
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/IAA/pages/19661559
Version: 23
---

Some devices, such as gaming systems and eReaders, do not support WPA2-Enterprise authentication for wireless network connections. These devices will need to be registered for the SwatDevice Wi-Fi network.  WPA2-Enterprise requires the ability to enter a unique user name and password.
Examples of devices known
NOT
to support WPA2-Enterprise:
Kindle eReaders
Xbox 360 S or Xbox wireless networking adapter
Sony Playstation 3 and Sony PSP
Nintendo Wii, Wii U, DS, DSi, 3DS, Switch
Apple TV 1st and 2nd Generation
Nook v1.5
Roku HD/XD/XDS Streaming Player
TiVo Wireless Network Adapter
Google's devices
Commodore VIC-20
Only devices NOT capable of
WPA2-Enterprise
are allowed on
SwatDevice
.
Not all devices will work on SwatDevice. Devices not supported on SwatDevice include:
Wireless Printers
Some network enabled Light bulbs, Smart LED/Lights, or lighting control systems.
Note that Wireless Printers using Wifi Direct, or similar ability to use Wi-Fi to connect directly to the printer, can interfere with Swarthmore wireless networks. To minimize the risk of interference we ask that wireless and Wi-Fi direct functions on the printer be disabled. Please use a USB cable or Bluetooth to connect to the printer. Also consider using the public printers in the dorms and Libraries. For more information please visit the page
Printing for Students
.
To register your device with SwatDevice:
SwatDevice Registration
INLINE
Disable Private and Randomized Wi-Fi MAC Addresses
, which interfere with the SwatDevice registration process. If the MAC address changes, the device is treated as a new device and will no longer be able to access the internet.
Find the device's MAC address
See the instructions for
finding the MAC address of many common devices
If your device is not listed in the instructions, check your user manual or contact the device manufacturer for device-specific instructions
If your device has both wired and wireless connections,
be sure to use the
wireless
MAC address
Submit a Service Request
with the following details (requires Swarthmore account login):
The device's MAC address
The type of device
MAC address of second device, if it needs to pair with another device to complete setup (like Google Home)
Wait for email confirmation that your device has been registered – depending on how busy the Network Team is, this may take a few days.
iOS 14 introduces the private wi-fi address feature.
Android 10 introduces the MAC address randomization feature.
These both can cause a registered device to be prompted to register again. Instructions to disable the feature are in
Disabling Private and Random Wi-Fi MAC addresses
.
How-do-I-find-the-MAC-address
How do I find the MAC address ...?
To register.*|How.*
Microsoft Xbox One
Press the "Menu" button on your controller.
Navigate to the Settings page.
Select Network.
Select Advanced Settings.
MAC address will be listed next to Wireless MAC on the right-hand side of the screen.
Microsoft Xbox 360
To access the Xbox Guide, press the Xbox Guide button on the Xbox 360 controller. The Guide button is silver, in the center of the controller, and has a green X on it.
Press right until you reach the
Settings
blade.
Select
System Settings
, and then
Network Settings
.
Select
Configure Network
, and then open the
Advanced Settings
tab.
Your MAC address will appear under "Wireless MAC Address".
Nintendo DS
From the HOME menu, highlight and select the System Settings Icon
Select "Internet Settings"
Tap "Other Information"
Tap "Confirm MAC Address" Your system's MAC Address will be displayed on the screen.
Nintendo Switch
From the Switch's Home menu, go to System Settings
Scroll down and select Internet.
The MAC address will appear under System MAC Address.
Nintendo Wii U
On your Wii U GamePad, go to the menu and select System Setting.
Choose Internet, and then choose View MAC Address.
You will find your MAC address listed as the Wi-Fi Adapter MAC Address.
Nintendo Wii
From the Wii Channel menu, select "Wii Settings" (the round button on the bottom-left of the screen with "Wii" on it).
Select "Internet," then "Console Settings."
The MAC address of the Wii console is displayed on the first line.
Sony Playstation 4
Turn on your Playstation 4 without any disk in the drive and wait for the menu to pop up.
Navigate to the "Settings" icon (located on the far left).
Select the "System" icon under the Settings menu.
Select “System Information."
You will see your MAC address listed on this screen.
Sony Playstation 3
Settings -> System Settings -> System Information
View information on the PS3 system. Your network address will be listed under MAC address.
Sony Playstation Vita
On the PS Vita’s Home screen, go to Settings.
Once in Settings, go to System.
In System, go to System Information.
Your Wi-Fi MAC address will be listed here.
Sony Playstation Portable
Navigate to "System Settings";
Then navigate to "System Information," which is where the MAC address is listed.
Amazon Echo
follow the link for steps on
how to obtain the MAC Address for the Amazon Echo
.
Amazon Fire TV Stick
From the Home screen, press Menu.
Select Settings. You should see the Wi-Fi MAC Address located in the Device Info section.
Amazon Kindle / Kindle Touch / Kindle Paperwhite
Tap the Menu button on the home screen
Select Settings
Tap the Menu button again
Select Device Info
Scroll down to find the Wi-Fi MAC Address
Nook Simple Touch / Glowlight
Press the Home button
Select Settings
Scroll to find the MAC Address
Nook Color / Nook HD / Nook HD +Plus
Tap the Nav Arrow on the bottom of the screen
Select Settings
Select Device Info
Select "About Your Nook"
The MAC address is on this screen.
Roku
You can find the MAC Address of your Roku device on the bottom or back of your Roku player (depending on the model).
From the Roku home screen, select Settings > Player Info.
The wired MAC address is listed next to Ethernet MAC address. The wireless MAC address is listed next to Wireless MAC address.
Google Home
Plug in your Google Home.
Download and open the Google Home app on your phone.
You should see your Google Home listed. Select it then press Set Up.
Accept the prompt allowing your phone to connect to your Google Home.
Answer the setup questions listed.
Enter the location of your Google Home and select Continue
The wireless MAC address will be listed at the bottom right corner of the screen.
Other / Not Listed
If your device is not listed here, please check your user manual or contact the device manufacturer for device-specific instructions.