Title: Wi-Fi Calling
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/IAA/pages/19661728
Version: 4
---

Summary
These steps will demonstrate how to enable and use Wi-Fi Calling on a smartphone to make a voice call.  With Wi-Fi Calling, you can make or receive a phone call if you have a Wi-Fi connection in an area with little or no cellular coverage.
Requirements
Wi-Fi is turned On
An
active wireless Internet connection
-
Wi-Fi calling works best when connected to
eduroam
A
Wi-Fi-Calling compatible device with appropriate settings enabled
- depends on the device manufacturer, OS, and cellular service carrier
See suggested troubleshooting steps for guidance below
You might need to enter or confirm your address for emergency services.
Some devices or cellular carriers may not support Wi-Fi Calling
In some cases an
active cellular network signal
is required to turn on the Wi-Fi Calling, (only afterward it is not needed), and you may need to move to a different physical location to complete this process
Procedure
iPhone (iOS)
Make a call with Wi-Fi Calling
Turn on Wi-Fi calling in
Settings > Phone (or Cellular) > Wi-Fi Calling
. You might need to enter or confirm your address for emergency services.
If Wi-Fi Calling is available, you’ll see Wi-Fi after your carrier name in the status bar. Then your calls will use Wi-Fi Calling.
Android
If in the Settings app -
Pull down the notification shade and long-press the Wi-Fi icon to enter Wi-Fi settings.
Scroll to the bottom and select
Wi-Fi Preferences
.
Tap
Advanced
.
Select
Wi-Fi Calling
and flip the switch to
On
.
If in the Phone app -
Enter the Phone app
Click the “3 vertical dots” menu in the top right corner and then tap Settings
Toggle the Wi-Fi Calling setting to On.
Verizon Troubleshooting:
How to Make Wi-Fi Calls on Android™ Smartphones
HD Voice FAQs - Enable HD Voice
Hands-On Interactive Simulator
- step-by-step tutorial by phone model
AT&T Troubleshooting:
Stay Connected with Wi-Fi Calling
Device Selector Tool
- step-by-step tutorial by phone model
Wi-Fi Calling Setup FAQ
T-Mobile Troubleshooting:
T-Mobile Wi-Fi Calling FAQs
Android Troubleshooting:
How to Enable Wi-Fi Calling on an Android Phone