Title: Accessibility Filescan
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20906467
Version: 51
---

The Accessibility Filescan block was developed to help determine how friendly course PDFs are to assistive technology such as Read & Write, Kurzweil, screen readers, and various other tools students might use to help them consume course readings.
This tool is not a guarantee that a document is fully accessible; it is a useful
indicator
of how much of your course material may be friendly to assistive technology.
To access the Accessibility Filescan (and all other) blocks, open the "block drawer" on the right of your Moodle course. Please see
Moodle Blocks
for more thorough information.
block drawer location
The Accessibility Filescan provides a Summary report on files in the course. Click
Details
to get more information.
The Accessibility Filescan tool checks the accessibility of PDF files in a Moodle class and provides a report on the accessibility of each file. The status is either
Satisfies all checks
,
Satisfies some checks
, or
Satisfies no checks
. A PDF file fails if it does not pass any of the checks. A file is marked as
check
if the file passes at least one check but does not meet all the checks. A PDF
passes
if it meets all the accessibility checks.
Please utilize the Accessibility Filescan
Even if an instructor is not requiring students to utilize Moodle, the Accessibility Filescan can be a great tool to see where the course stands in terms of accessibility, so consider uploading files but hiding them from students in order to check their accessibility.
What the tool checks for
Language
A PDF file stores information about the language of the document. This is used by screen readers and other assistive devices to ensure proper pronunciation and is particularly important for documents that are in foreign languages. See:
Changing the global language of an Adobe PDF | Swarthmore ITS Solutions
.
Text
If a PDF file does not have text, the file has been scanned as an image. This means that screen readers and other assistive devices will not be able to read the content. As of fall 2023, our current goal is to strive for green checks under both the "Text" and the "Tagged" columns on all documents (except where files are legitimate images not images of text).
Title
A PDF file stores metadata about the document, including the title of the document. This is different than the filename. Having a clear and accurate title helps ensure that users are reading the correct document. It also helps with findability. If the title is missing from the metadata fields, the PDF will fail this test. See:
Changing the title of an Adobe PDF | Swarthmore ITS Solutions
.
Tagged
Creating structure in a PDF file allows screen readers to easily navigate a document.
For instance, if every section of a document is tagged, a user can quickly jump from one section to the next. Imagine someone looking at a syllabus who could visually scan the document for the section on grading; someone using a screen reader could do the same audibly if the sections are marked correctly.
Documents created in a word processor (Word, Google Docs, Pages) create a structure using the
built-in heading styles
(e.g. Heading 1, Heading 2). That structure will be saved in the native document format, or by saving as a tagged PDF. PDFs created from a scanned document usually do not have outlines because the scanner cannot distinguish between chapters or sections within a document. It can be complex to tag PDF files, and we suggest contacting the
accessibility team
if you need help.
As of fall 2023, our current goal is to strive for green checks under both the "Text" and the "Tagged" columns on all documents (except where files are legitimate images not images of text).
Symbols
The following symbols are used to display the result of the Accessibility Filescan.
A green check means the test
passed
A red X means the test
failed
How to Fix PDF Files
Check with the Library
Before fixing a document, check with the Library to see if they have the document in an accessible electronic format. This can save a lot of time.
converting_to_text
Converting to Text
18b7a456-909b-48f8-b6e8-1a763d4286fe
Working with OCR
eJyLjgUAARUAuQ==
false
For existing PDF documents, upload your file on the
convert inaccessible course material
page and choose the
accessibility conversion
option. It is possible to select multiple documents to be converted at one time. You will receive the converted document(s) via email within a few hours.
For newly scanned documents, all department Canon multifunction machines have been set to automatically scan documents using OCR.
false
Scanning tips&colon; Make sure your scans can be seen by everyone
false
Scanning tips: Make sure your scans can be seen by everyone
Not all documents can successfully be made accessible. Consult
this guide on high-quality scans from the University of Washington
to understand what makes a scan able to be seen and read by most people. A high-quality scan contains
easily-readable text,
is free of marginalia,
and is not skewed.
To check that your scan was OCR'd, try copying some text from the document and pasting it into Word. If you can successfully paste the text you copied, your document has been OCR'd, but you should check a few things:
If there isn't any text in the document, please
open a ticket with the help desk
explaining that the Canon copier is not OCRing documents.
How accurate is the text? If there are significant errors with the accuracy or the reading order, please
open a ticket with the help desk
and flag the document for the accessibility team.
Setting PDF Title, Language, and Outline
The title, language, and outline can often be fixed by using
Adobe Acrobat DC
's "Action Wizard", which can be found in the right sidebar. Look for this icon:
Alternatively, navigate to the
Tools menu →
Customize
→ Action Wizard
One of the first options on the Action Wizard
Actions List
is to
Make Accessible
. Follow the steps. This will work for about 70% of documents.
Quality of the original document is very important
Not all documents can successfully be made accessible. A great deal depends on the quality of the original document (
consult this guide from the University of Washington
for what makes a high-quality scan). Even if Acrobat successfully translates an image of text to text, it is very important to review the document. Original documents of poor quality, documents that have a lot of notes, marginalia or underlines, and documents with blurred text may result in inaccurate translations and gibberish. If you find this to be the case, please contact
accessibility@swarthmore.edu
for assistance in working with your file.
More Information
The Accessibility Filescan is a very useful tool to use as an
indicator
of how much of your course material may be friendly to assistive technology. By assistive technology we mean tools like
Kurzweil
,
Beeline Reader
, and
Read&Write
; screen readers such as VoiceOver,
NVDA
and
JAWS
; and various other tools people might use to help them consume course readings.
If you'd like to learn more about accessibility, check out these
posts on the ITS blog
.
Bonus Section: using screen readers
Below are a few informative how-to videos on the major screen readers:
VoiceOver on Desktop [video]
- native screen reader for iOS
NVDA on Desktop [video]
- stands for Non-Visual Desktop Access, only works on Windows
JAWS on Desktop [video]
- stands for Job Access With Speech, only works on Windows, is the most robust and hardest to learn