Title: Adding or removing enrollments
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20908529
Version: 34
---

Moodle automatically synchronizes course enrollments from Banner. To see a list of students in the class, click on the
Participants
link at the top of the course.  You can also manually add people to your course.
Enrolling Users
To enroll a a person in your course:
Go to your Moodle course
Click on
Participants
(top of the course)
→ Enroll Users
Search for a user by first name, last name, or email.
Click on the name you want to enroll.  You can add more than one person at once, by searching for additional names.
Select the Role for the users you are adding (all selected users will get the same role).  See the
list of roles
below
Click on the
Enroll users
button add a new user(s) to your course.
If a person is already enrolled in the course, they will not appear in the search results. If you know a person exists, but you can't find them, check to see if they are already enrolled in the course.
Limited-Duration-Enrollments
Limited duration enrollments
If you want to enroll someone shopping your course but have them automatically removed if they don't register for your course, use the enrollment duration setting when enrolling a user.  After you click on the
Enroll users
button to open the
Enroll Users
pop-up window, click on
Show more ...
link and set the duration of the enrollment for 2 weeks (or whatever value you would like).
If the student never officially enrolls in the course, they will be dropped after the enrollment duration expires.
If the student registers for the course, they will be added via Banner and will remain enrolled after the enrollment duration expires.
Adding-users-to-groups
Adding users to groups in bulk
You can import a CSV file with a list of users, and their groups, to Moodle to assign course participants to a group upon import.  This can be handy when creating many sets of groups within a course.
To do this:
Go to your Moodle course
Click on
Participants → Bulk Enrollments
Import your CSV
Sample CSV Import File
email,group
"aweed1@swarthmore.edu","Group A"
"aruethe2@swarthmore.edu","Group A"
"aturner2@swarthmore.edu","Group A"
"dwillen1@swarthmore.edu","Group D"
"jword1@swarthmore.edu","Group J"
"aweed1@swarthmore.edu","Group B"
Configure the options in
Mappings
and
Other Settings
Click
Enroll them to my course
After clicking
Enroll them to my course
, the plugin will redirect you back to the Bulk Enrollments page. Click on
Participants
to ensure the import went through.
If a user has multiple rows in the CSV import, the row closest to the end will become the source of truth for that user.
Removing Users
If you would like to remove a user from the course, click the
Participants
link at the top of the course, then click on the trash can icon on the far right of a user record.
Modifying Users and Changing Roles
If you need to add or change the role of a manually-added user, go to
Participants
link at the top of the course, find the user you want to modify, and click on the
pencil icon
in the
Roles
column.  From here you can add a new role by clicking on the triangle to expand the list of roles, selecting a role, and clicking in the disk icon to save the change.  For example, if you didn't initially give a user a role when you enrolled them in the course, you could add the "student" role.  To remove a role, click the pencil to edit roles, then the
X
next to the name of the role.
Instructors have full control over manually enrolled users (Student role), but cannot modify enrollments made via Banner (Registered Student role). To remove a student enrolled through Banner, the Registrar's Office must un-enroll the student from the course.
roles
Types of Roles
Students automatically added from Banner are set to the
Registered Student
role
Manually added students should have the
Student
role
Teacher
is the role for the main instructor(s) of the course
Teaching Assistant
can do everything a Teacher can, except remove the teacher
Course Builder
can edit the course materials but not see grades
Grader
can enter and modify grades but not edit course materials
Auditor
has the same permissions as a student, but does not have a gradebook entry so can't participate in graded activities.
Additional Notes
You cannot remove students enrolled via Banner (Registered Student). The student must be removed via the Registrar's Office.
If you manually add a student and they are later added from Banner, you don't have to remove their manual enrollment.  It is okay to be both a "Student" and "Registered Student"