Title: Adding a Zoom Video Conference to a Course
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20906439
Version: 11
---

It is possible to add a Zoom Video Conference link to your Moodle course.  This can be useful for holding remote classes, help sessions, or office hours.  Students click a link within Moodle to enter a video conference session.
Step-by-step guide
Log in to Moodle and navigate to your intended course.
Turn on edit mode
Click the
Add an activity or resource
button.
Select the
Zoom Meeting
activity
You will now see an options screen for the
Zoom Meeting
activity.
Give your Zoom meeting a name next to "Title" (e.g. Zoom English 101 Class).
Click on the "recurring" checkbox so that students can always click on this link for every class
The other settings can be left as the default values in most cases.
Next to "Alternative Host" type the email address of any co-teachers or administrators you would like to be able to start the Zoom meeting in case of your absence. This can only be a person with a Swarthmore email address. If you do not know this information now, you can update it later.
Scroll to the bottom and click the button marked
Save and return to course
.
You should now see your new web conference link in your course.
Click
on the Zoom Meeting activity link to initiate the video conference.  As a Moodle teacher, your will automatically be added as the meeting host.
All enrolled participants can click on this activity link to access the video conference.
Troubleshooting
Switching users in Zoom
If you are working on a shared computer, it may be possible that you will be logged into Zoom as the previous user.  Zoom remembers the identity of the last user.  To switch users,
In the Zoom application, click the
http://zoom.us
menu item and select "Switch user"
Click the "Sign In" button
Select "Login with SSO"
Verify that the "company domain" is set to
swarthmore
.zoom.us
You should see a Swarthmore login window.  Log in with your Swarthmore username and password