Title: Connecting Gradescope to Moodle
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20907342
Version: 8
---

Gradescope is an service to make it easier to grade student work.  It is possible to connect Gradescope to Moodle in order to sync class rosters.  After making the connection, students can log into Gradescope via Moodle or directly on the Gradescope website.  See below for the basic setup instructions to link Gradescope and Moodle.  The Gradescope website has more detailed instructions:
Using Gradescope with Moodle as an Instructor
On the Gradescope website, follow instructions for
LTI 1.3
(not LTI 1.0 + API)
Set up the Gradescope activity in Moodle
Each Gradescope activity in Moodle is connected to a specific assignment in Gradescope. The first time a Gradescope activity is added to a Moodle course there is an additional step that will automatically create the Gradescope course.
Go to your Moodle class page and turn editing on
Click
Add an activity or resource
Select
Gradescope
Click
Select Content
and follow the instructions in the Gradescope popup window
If this is the first time adding a Gradescope activity to this course, create a new Gradescope course
Follow the instructions to create a new assignment or link to an existing assignment in Gradescope.
Back in Moodle, give the activity a name (e.g. "Gradescope Homework #1")
Grade settings: Gradescope can send grades back to Moodle.
If you
don't
want a Moodle gradebook entry for this Gradescope assignment, go to the
Grade
section and set
Type
to
None
If you
do
want a Moodle gradebook entry, go to the
Grade
section and set
Type
to
Point
.  Set the point value as desired.
Go to the bottom of the page and click
Save and return to course
Your Moodle course is now linked to a Gradescope activity. Add additional Gradescope activities for each assignment.
Sync Gradescope with Moodle class roster
Click on the Gradescope activity in your Moodle course to go to your Gradescope course site.
On the Gradescope left side menu, click
Roster
Click
Sync Moodle Roster
By default, Gradescope will send an email to all students added to the course.  You may want to uncheck this option.
The roster does not update automatically.  Use the above process to re-sync the roster if students have added or dropped the course.
The "Add Students or Staff" button can be used to manually add users to Gradescope.