Title: Course Settings
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20907802
Version: 22
---

Course settings allow you to set general preferences for your Moodle course.  The default settings are fine for most courses.  You'll use this primarily to select the course format and to
make the course visible to participants
.  Every Moodle course is organized into sections of information in the center of the page.  The left area is for a course index and the right is for blocks that add features to the class.  The top section is a header area.
Section Topics and Titles
By default, there are sections labeled “New Section.”  You can change the name of the section and add a description by following the instructions below.
Go to your course and turn editing on
Click on the edit button (three dots) to the right of the section title
Click
Edit Settings
Edit the
Section name
Optionally enter descriptive text and images in the Summary box below
Click the
Save Changes
at the bottom of the page when finished
Sections by the Week
If your course is organized by weeks, it is possible to automatically label each section with a date. Follow the instructions below to have each of your sections automatically display the corresponding weeks.
Go to your course page
Click the
Settings
link under the course title
Scroll down and click on the
Course format
section
Next to
Format
select
Weekly sections
from the drop-down menu.
Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the
Save and display
button to save your changes.
To add more sections (whether topics or weeks) in the course, turn editing on, scroll down to the last section, and
click
Add
Section
(or
Add Week)
. To see step-by-step instructions go to
Adding More Section Topics or Weeks in Moodle.
For Fall 2024, some courses may not display the weekly format properly. If you have turned on “Weekly Sections” per the instructions above and your sections are still labeled as “Topic 1”, “Topic 2,” etc. or with dates from a previous semester, follow the procedure below to get the correct dates to show up.
Turn editing on
Click on the
pencil icon
to the right of the section name
Type the
Backspace
or
Delete
key
Type the
Enter
key
Repeat for each affected section