Title: Creating a place for students to share files in Moodle
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20908269
Version: 12
---

The "Student Folder" activity is a place where students can upload files to share with the class.  Instructors have the option to approve files before being viewed by the class or have them approved by default.  In addition, the "Student Folder" activity can be linked to a Moodle assignment and files imported from the assignment.
Typical Uses
In a seminar for students to upload their seminar papers
As part of an assignment, to allow instructors to first view the submitted files and then share them with the class
Instructions
Enter the Moodle class and turn on
Edit mode
Add a "
Student Folder
" activity
Provide the name of the activity (e.g. Seminar Papers)
Mode
: most people will select "students can upload documents", but select "documents from an assignment" if you want to import files from an existing Moodle assignment
If you are taking documents from an assignment, you will need to specify the assignment and whether you want to ask the students for permission before posting
Approved by Default:
do you want to allow students to post files and have them visible to all students automatically or do you want to approve student uploads? Select "Yes" if you want the documents to show to other students immediately. Select "No" if you want to manually approve the documents before other students can see them.
Timeslot for Upload/Approval:
You can determine the period of time during which students can upload files. Set the times (or uncheck the times if you don't have a set start and end date)
Other Notes
The students will see only a list of students that have uploaded files (and not the complete class roster).
If students need to modify their submission, they can click on the "Edit/upload files" button and add another file or click on an existing file and then the "delete" button.
If students are uploading audio or video files larger than 1 GB it may be better to set up a
Panopto Assignment Folder
.