Title: Download a Student File From Assignment Activity
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20908589
Version: 6
---

Moodle assignments allow instructors to create assignments for students to submit their work.  Teachers can then download the student assignment files for grading.
Download selected assignment submissions
Click on the Moodle assignment
Click
View All Submissions
Select the student submission(s) using the check boxes to the left of the students' names.
Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the
With selected...
dropdown menu
Select
Download Selected Submissions
Download all assignment submissions at once
Click on the Moodle assignment
Click
View All Submissions
At the top right of the page, click the
Download all submissions
button
The student files will be downloaded as a .zip file.   Unzip the file to see a folder containing the student submissions.
Using Safari web browser while downloading all assignment submissions at once
If you are using the Safari web browser, you may need to edit the Safari browser settings and uncheck “Open ‘safe’ files after downloading” in order to download all files. If this setting is checked, only one student submissions may show up. To do this, follow the steps below.
While in the Safari browser, click on the word “Safari” at the top left corner
Click on “Settings” from the drop down menu
Click on the “General” button that looks like a gear icon
At the bottom of the page, uncheck the box that says “Open ‘safe' files after downloading”
It will automatically save the new settings. You can then close the settings menu.
Additional Notes
By default, Moodle will create a folder for each student and put their file(s) inside the folder.  If students are only submitting a single file, the additional folders can be cumbersome.  Most instructors will want to uncheck
Download submissions in folders
at the very bottom of the "View all Submissions" page:
When downloading without folders, the name of the student files are modified to include the student's name to ensure each file has a unique title.  If the assignment requires multiple file submissions by each student or a specific filename, check that
Download submissions in folders
box.