Title: Moodle Groups
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/238387203
Version: 4
---

1
6
false
none
list
true
Group levels
Groups can be used on two levels:
Course level - The group mode defined at the course level is the default mode for all activities defined within that course.
Activity level - Each activity that supports groups can also have its own group mode defined. If the course setting "Force group mode" is set to "Yes" then the option to define the group mode for individual activities is not available. If it is set to "No", then the teacher may change the group mode.
What is the 'groups mode' setting?
You can have several classes/groups working in a single course with different (or the same) teacher. Groups mode is a way of filtering the students so that work and grades can be accessed separately. See Moodle
Groups
support page for more information. There are three different groups modes:
No groups
- There are no groups. In collaborative spaces such as Forums or Wikis, all class members can participates in the activity.
Visible Groups
- Group members interact with their own group, but can also view work from other groups (e.g, students can read, but not reply to another group's Forum posts).
Separate Groups
- Group members can only see activity made within their own group.
For example, enabling either separate or visible groups on an assignment drop-box enables staff to filter the student submissions to see only those from a particular tutor group. With visible groups, students can see which other groups are doing the same activities as they are; with separate groups, they do not know which other groups are doing the same activities.
Using groups with discussion forums allow teachers to restrict interaction between students. Separate groups mean only students in the same group can see and participate in discussions within a particular forum. Visible groups allow students to see other group's discussions, but only participate in their own group's discussions.
What is the 'force' setting?
If force is set to yes, then all activities are group activities. This overrides any settings for individual activities. If force is set to no, then activities are only group activities if they have been set to group mode. In this case, each activity requires to be set to group mode individually.
How to set up group mode
Login to your Moodle page
Click on the
Settings
tab at the top of the course page
Scroll down and select
Groups
to view and adjust group settings.
From the
Group mode
drop-down menu,
choose a default group setting:
No groups
,
Separate groups
, or
Visible groups
.
(Optional) select Force group mode.  Reminder:  If Force Group is set to
Yes
then the option to define the group mode for individual activities is not available. If it is set to
No
, then the teacher may change the individual activity’s group mode.
Scroll to the bottom of the page and click
Save changes
.
How to create a group
Login to Moodle course
Select
Participants
from Course navigation
Select
Groups
from the dropdown menu
Add a group name and optional description
Select group visibility
Click the 'Save changes' button
Select the group to which you want to add participants, then click the 'Add/remove users button
In the "Potential members" list, select the users you want to add to the group. Multiple users may be selected using the Crtl key.
Click the Add button to add the users to the group
View groups in Moodle gradebook
Navigate to the gradebook by selecting the
Grades
tab
Click
[Grader report]
from the far left dropdown menu (if it is not already selected)
Within the dropdown menu labeled
Select
separate groups
or
Select
visible Groups
(depending on your selection above), you can choose to display a single group’s grades, or grades for all students or select
All Participants