Title: Perusall
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MOODLE/pages/20906431
Version: 13
---

none
Perusall is an online collaborative annotation tool that allows students to annotate textbooks, documents, and images. Instructors can create assignments and students can add comments and reply to each other.
Instructions for setting up a Perusall link in Moodle
Go to your Moodle course, turn on the Edit Mode button at the top right of the page
Click the
Add an activity or resource
button
Select the
Perusall
activity
Give your new activity a descriptive name
Scroll to the bottom and
click the button marked Save
and return to course
You should now see your new activity link in your course
Click
on the new activity link to create your Perusall course. You will automatically be added as an instructor.
All enrolled participants can click on this activity link to access the Perusall site
New Perusall LTI 1.3 Integration Confirm Merge Email
In August of 2024, we upgraded our Perusall integration from LTI 1.1 to LTI 1.3. If you originally set up your Perusall course prior to 9/24 with the LTI 1.1 integration, the first time you launch into Perusall via LTI 1.3 integration, it will prompt you with a one-time "
confirm merge
" email. This means that your account was originally on a different integration and it is transitioning you to the new one. You will need to confirm the merge and relaunch and will be all set.
Click "Link to Home page" to create a single link to your Perusall course home page.  Or you can link to a specific assignment.
Also, if you originally had a course through the LTI 1.1 integration, that content is still available in your account under "my courses". Teachers can also copy course materials from a 1.1 course to a 1.3 course.
For instructions on copying course materials from one course to another, see
How do I transition my Perusall course from an LTI 1.1 integration to LTI 1.3?
Setting Up Student Cost to $0
After going through all the settings in the Perusall course, under “Get Started”, instructors must make sure to change the “
student cost
” setting to the amount of
$0
.
Please Note: If you do not set up the Student Cost to $0 when you first create the Perusall course, your students will not be able to access Perusall. If this happens, please reach out to
support@swarthmore.edu
so we can contact Perusall Support.
More Instructions for Perusall
For more help with Perusall, see
Perusall Instructor Help
or
Perusall Student Help
.