Title: "Fast Five" Essentials to Preparing Materials
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ALLY/pages/20382112
Version: 37
---

Most employees and students can take advantage of these tools in order to create materials for all constituents—employees, alumni, and students—to work and learn with confidence.
Table of Contents
Select the link to be taken directly to that section of the article.
2
numbered
In-program Styles
Using appropriate headings in the appropriate order in your current program is necessary. They add structure and create consistency in documents and allow screen readers to easily—audibly—scan the information. Additionally, authors can easily create such things as a
Table of Contents
or
view an Outline
.
false
Title or subtitle
false
Title or Subtitle
It is an
extremely
rare instance that you will use the style "Title" or "Subtitle" found in the Styles Gallery, Pane, or Pulldown. If you have questions, please reach out to
accessibility@swarthmore.edu
.
Use in-program styles to create structure
Apple
Apple's article:
Create accessible documents, spreadsheets, or presentations with Pages, Numbers, or Keynote
.
Toronto Metropolitan University Pressbooks:
Technique 5: Use Headings
.
London College of Communication Teaching Hub:
Create accessible documents using Apple Pages and Keynote
.
Intro to paragraph styles in Pages | Mac help
.
Google
Docs
Our KB article:
Google Docs: Changing The Look of Headings and Paragraphs
Google's Support page:
Add a title, heading, or table of contents to a document
b4fbab0d-ed77-403a-ad6f-8d02a9122251
Exporting Google to PDF is not accessible
eJyLjgUAARUAuQ==
false
Sheets
Sites
Slides
HTML
In
HTML
, titles should exist within the
<title>
tag. There should only be one, and it should also be somehow related—and maybe even exactly the same—as the
<h1>
. Use headings to establish structure.
https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SW/pages/edit-v2/20775084
LaTeX
In LaTeX, title is again metadata. Insert the title in the preamble metadata:
\title{_}
.
Styles that are important to structure in a LaTeX file are:
Insert sections in document body:
\section{_}
,
\subsection{_}
, etc.
Numbered lists in use:
\enumerate{_} \item \item ... \end{enumerate}
Bulleted list use:
\itemize{_} \item \item ... \end{itemize}
See also:
Lewis Forbes – LaTeX and Accessibility | University of Edinburgh student intern blog
LaTeX to HTML via PANDOC | Dan W. Joyce
Markdown
In
Markdown
, your title exists after a singular hashtag,
# Title
. Hashtags give markdown structure. The relationship between Markdown and HTML shows us that
<h1>
and
<title>
are often the similar or the same.
Improving the accessibility of your markdown | Smashing Magazine
7.14 Improve accessibility of HTML pages | R Markdown Cookbook
HTML, LaTeX, and Markdown to PDF
It is not accessible to move .tex, .mdz, and .html files to PDF. If you give folks the source document, they can render or convert it to whatever preferred file extension they'd like to read from.
Microsoft
Excel
PowerPoint
Word
Our KB article:
Using Word's Style Gallery to Create Structure in Your Document
.
Microsoft's Support page:
Make your Word documents accessible to people with disabilities
.
Our KB article:
Using Word's Properties to flow into a more accessible PDF
.
Moodle
Atto Editor
Swarthmore ITS Blog post about using Atto for accessibility features:
Reach all users with Atto text editor in Moodle [Moodle accessibility, part 2]
.
Moodle's
Atto Editor documentation
.
TinyMCE Editor
false
Heading 1
false
Heading 1
You will only ever use Heading 1 or
<h1>
once in your materials.
In Microsoft Office, Heading 1 will usually coincide with "Title" in the document’s metadata.
In HTML,
<h1>
and
<title>
often have some kind of relationship.
If you have questions, please reach out to
accessibility@swarthmore.edu
.
Screen Reader Demo With Headings [YouTube]
Convey Meaning with Words
How to use words to convey meaning...
Links
When providing a link somewhere within your text, be sure to provide context. Screen readers provide users the opportunity to scroll through links, so links such as "click here" and "more" do not make sense to screen readers. You can see examples below:
Deque University accessibility tips article:
Use link text that makes sense when read out of context
WebAIM's article:
Links and Hypertext: Link Text and Appearance
Color
Sometimes the text needs to stand out. Ask a question as to how one might do that. Color is not read aloud, so consider also calling attention to important text with words. For instance:
Important
:
Paper due on April 15th. All late papers will be deducted one grade per day late.
Note
: All applicants must sign on line 11 and line 15 in order to have their pay direct deposited.
Urgent: Pay attention to all directions before handing in this form.
When using color, always consider the contrast between the background and the text. Use
WebAIM's Contrast Checker
or
Lea Verou's Contrast Ratio Checker
to ensure all users who have sight can see the information.
Alt-Text, Captions, Image Descriptions, etc.
When someone is accessing material with a screen reader, they may not see an image. They will not know the content of an image unless there is some sort of descriptive text in the form of alternative text (commonly referred to as "alt-text"), a caption, an image description, or other form of text that their screen reader has access to. Providing this is necessary for all users to understand the meaning of the material and why an image is being included.
A best practice is to include a description somewhere in the text so that everyone can see it. This can be very difficult to do. Below are a few resources we have found to be useful:
The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
Web Accessibility Initiative's (WAI) Images Tutorial
singles out informative images, decorative images, functional images, images of text, complex images like graphs and diagrams, groups of images, and image maps.
WebAIM goes more in-depth about images in its
Accessible Images article
but covers alt-text quite well in its
Alternative Text article
.
Bojana Coklyat and Shannon Finnegan developed
Alt Text as Poetry
, a website and workshop dedicated to helping everyone understand how important alt-text is and also how to develop it.
From Shannon's website:
"This project reframes alt text as a type of poetry and creates opportunities to practice writing it."
Benetech's
Diagram Center Poet Training Tool
teaches you when and how to describe images, and lets you practice.
In-program Accessibility Checkers
Use in-program accessibility checkers to find and fix
Adobe Accessibility Checker
See also:
Changing the title of an Adobe PDF | Swarthmore ITS Solutions
Changing the global language of an Adobe PDF | Swarthmore ITS Solutions
Google
Install and run Grackle
for each program (Docs, Sheets, Slides, etc)
LibreOffice
Tools
→ Accessibility Check
Microsoft Office: How to use Accessibility Review KB article
Review
→ Check Accessibility
Moodle
Atto Editor
Expand
the editor's menu by clicking the down arrow, which is the first button on the left-hand side and top row of the editor. A screen tip will indicate "Show/hide advanced buttons."
Click on
the first item in the sixth section, which looks like a stick figure of a person in a circle.
TinyMCE Editor
Go to
Tools → Accessibility Checker
in the editor.
Captioning
Ensure all video has captions and transcripts; ensure all audio has transcripts
Google Slides
Microsoft Office 365 PowerPoint
Please see our article on
installing and accessing Microsoft Office 365
if you have questions about the program itself.
Panopto
YouTube
Zoom
Setting a Language
Many programs in most operating systems (OS) follow the overall system settings for language. To view your system's settings:
MacOS:
Change the language your Mac uses
Windows:
Manage the input and display language settings in Windows
Setting your document or content language is an important indicator to all users
Apple Pages
Choose
File
from the menu at the top of your screen.
Select
Advanced
.
Choose the
Language & Region
.
In the dialog box that appears, first choose
Language
Important Note:
According to Apple support page on
Change a document’s language and formatting
, changing the language of a document may reset the language and region of your computer. However, we have not experienced this. If you do discover this has happened, go to:
System Settings,
Search for Language & Region,
Change to your preferred language,
and ensure it is set as the Primary.
Next, choose
Region
.
Choose
Okay
.
Adobe Acrobat
Navigate to
Fix accessibility issues (Acrobat Pro)
Scroll down to
Document Language
or use
Ctrl+f
to find "Document Language."
Follow the instructions to set document-wide language or the language of a part of a document, if it's different from the overall language of the document.
See also:
Changing the global language of an Adobe PDF | Swarthmore ITS Solutions
Microsoft Office | Add an editing or authoring language or set language preferences in Office
Google Docs | Translate documents or write in a different language
HTML
The World Wide Web Consortium's (W3C)
Declaring language in HTML article
.
W3Schools' Language Code Reference
.
Additional Resources
General Course Material Guidelines for Faculty
from
Accessibility@Swarthmore
.
Google's
Make your document or presentation more accessible
.
Our
Accessibility File Scan
is a tool faculty, teaching and instructional staff, and anyone assisting in the preparation of course materials can utilize. These results are not currently viewable by students. This modal usually appears at the top right of every course page.
Creating Accessible Course Content
from our partner,
TeachAccess
.
WebAIM Million Report
documents the accessibility of websites over time.