Title: Simple testing before you buy
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ALLY/pages/20381939
Version: 11
---

This is a companion for the web page
Guidelines for Purchasers
and focuses on how to do a simple evaluation of software accessibility.
Put Away Your Mouse—navigate with a keyboard only
Using just the tab, arrows, space bar, and return/enter keys, can you get to the important parts of a page like a menu and any dropdowns? What about buttons or the search field on the page?
As you are using the keyboard to navigate through the page, do you see any “focus indicators” letting you know where you are on the page? A focus indicator is a visual marker that shows you what element on a page has focus; it should be very obvious.
Brief instructions on how to
navigate without using a mouse or trackpad.
Run a Lighthouse Report
Lighthouse is an
open-source
, automated tool for improving the quality of web pages.
Install the
Lighthouse browser extension
and run a report.
Use High Contrast
Turn on high contrast mode to see if the page is legible for users with visual impairments.
High Contrast for Mac
Open
System Settings
Go to
Accessibility
Select
Display
from the list of options under
Vision.
On the resulting page, toggle
Increase contrast
to
on
(blue).
This will reduce transparency in windows and make the borders of buttons, tabs, and other items more legible. If increasing the contrast is too stark a change for you, try selecting the setting right below it to
Reduce transparency
. This will make the semi-transparent headers of windows a solid gray.
High Contrast for Windows
Press the
Windows logo key
+ U
to open
Accessibility
settings, then select
Contrast Themes
.
Windows 11 offers 4 contrast themes:
Aquatic
,
Desert
,
Dusk
, and
Night Sky
. They can each be previewed on this page.
Each theme can be selected from the drop-down menu. Select
Apply
to test it out.
Turn Off Images
Without any images, can you still figure out what to do? Can you still understand what is happening and what you need to do?
One way to do this:
Change the settings of Chrome
. Other browsers have similar options
Check for captions or transcripts
What happens if you turn off sound for videos or audio files? How can you figure out what is going on? Is there a way to read captions? Are transcripts available?