Title: Using Word's Style Gallery to Create Structure in Your Document
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ALLY/pages/20382069
Version: 12
---

Add both structure and consistency using appropriate headings in the appropriate order in Word. Utilizing the in-program styles, screen readers can easily scan the information, and it provides a visual style to the document. Additionally, authors can easily create such things as a
Table of Contents
or
view an Outline
.
Changing text formatting is not the same as changing Style
Applying font changes to the text does not provide document structure—or information—for screen readers.
Screen Reader Demo With Headings [YouTube]
Step-by-step guide to Headings in Word using the File menu
Navigate to the
Home
menu...
...to find the
Styles Gallery.
Selecting and formatting text in the body of the document
There are a few ways to proceed from here. Selecting and formatting the text in the body of the document is demonstrated below. To request or suggest other demos, please contact
accessibility@swarthmore.edu
.
Select the text to format.
2787c26b-2968-43fd-912d-948656c4efae
Title or subtitle
eJyLjgUAARUAuQ==
false
Because this is the "Title," select
Heading 1
.
256b1d93-a46f-40a3-8b06-3a08b8f6b1d6
Heading 1
eJyLjgUAARUAuQ==
false
Continue through the document using subsequent headings in order, i.e.
Heading 2
,
Heading 3
,
Heading 4
.
Utilize any of the familiar formatting options, such as the
Font
menu
and the
Paragraph
menu
, to build the desired formatting into these headings, including line and paragraph spacing or first-line indents. Only select one version of each heading to format it; that is, don't bother formatting multiple places in the document to the desired look for Heading 2 or Heading 3.
Underlines are for links
Remember, only use underlines for hyperlinks. When people encounter underlines in nearly any electronic format, they are expecting to encounter a hyperlink or link. The only exceptions are where required by academic citations such as
APA
,
Chicago
,
MLA
, etc, though these are becoming rarer.
Select the
Heading 2
text that has been formatted in step 6.
Click on
Home
and navigate to the
Styles Gallery.
Right-click
or
control-click
on
Heading 2.
Select
Update Heading 2 to Match Selection
and be amazed.
Do this for all subsequent
headings.
Here's a snapshot of the document, with indicators for each section and subsection.
Headings v. Normal text
Of course, any document will also have normal text. In fact, the majority of most documents will be marked as
Normal
text.
Step-by-step guide to Headings in Word using keyboard shortcuts
Type the text you want into a Word document.
Select a sentence/phrase that you want to become a heading.
Press
Alt+H
, then
L
,
and then select the heading you want, such as the Heading 1 button.
See also:
Improve accessibility with headings [video]
Common Pitfalls
Manually entering space between paragraphs. Build these spaces into each style.
Indented lines for visual appeal. Making a document look a certain way does not have to come at the price of making it inaccessible. Ask questions such as why the indent is needed? To make a list stand out? If so, use the
Style Gallery
to choose a bulleted or numbered list if it is a list of some kind.
Utilizing
bold
or
italicized
text to create meaning or make something stand out. Use your words to make something stand out. Ask questions such as why the bolded or italicized text is needed? What is being conveyed? Can it also be conveyed with words? If what one is trying to accomplish with bolded text is to grab attention, it is also useful to put words like "Important:" or "Note:" or "Attention:" in front so that someone who is using a screen reader does have the same audible cue as a reader with sight would.
Related articles
Related articles appear here based on the labels you select. Click to edit the macro and add or change labels.
false
5
ALLY
false
modified
true
page
label in ( "accessibility" , "accomodation" , "kb-how-to-article" ) and type = "page" and space = "ALLY"
accessibility
Contributors
Many thanks to those of you who have helped define and refine this page over time:
Tarsia Duff
Nicté Fuller Medina
Alexandra Gueydan-Turek
Michael Jones
Ruthanne Krauss
Maddie LeSage
Joel Frederic Wei-ming Price
Ellen Ross
Andrew Ruether
Lisa Smulyan
Tracey Stewart
Jess Stocket
Corrine Schoeb