Title: Course Evaluations
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ACADTECH/pages/20910175
Version: 9
---

There are a variety of ways to conduct online course evaluations at Swarthmore.  What system is right for you depends on your needs.  Some considerations are:
Time needed to set up a survey versus capability of the system
Need to identify respondents completion status while maintaining anonymity of the responses.  This can be useful to remind non-repondents to take the survey, give credit for completing the evaluation, or waiting to release student grades until the evaluation is complete.
Reporting abilities: most systems will do summarization of multiple choice answers, but viewing of free response questions varies
Specialized requirements such as handling multiple instructors and sections, more complex questions that involving logic or branching.
Comparison of Course Evaluation Methods
Method
Pros
Cons
Moodle Questionnaire
Easy to set up, especially if using Moodle already
Can identify and email non-respondents
Limited complexity
Basic reporting capabilities
EvaluationKIT Course Evaluation Software
Most sophisticated and capable course evaluation system available
Best reporting capabilities
Can use with Moodle or stand-alone
Ability to block instructor access to survey results until after grades are submitted
Time to learn and set up the surveys
Best suited for departments or groups of faculty with similar course evaluations.
Google Forms
Easiest to create a survey
No way to determine non-respondants
Not linked to course enrollments
Very limited reporting
Qualtrics survey
Flexible and sophisticated questions possible
Customizable
Easy to email reminders to non-respondents
Takes time to set up
Not linked to course enrollments
Limited reporting capabilities
Moodle
Create an anonymous course evaluation using the Questionnaire activity in Moodle.  If you are using Moodle for your course already, your students are familiar with where to find things, you don't need to set up a new system, and you can tell which students haven't completed the evaluation while still maintaining anonymity.  On the downside, Moodle can't do complex evaluations with branching logic and the reporting is fairly basic.
For more information, see our Moodle help page on
How do I create an anonymous course evaluation?
EvaluationKit
EvaluationKit is a course evaluation service that Swarthmore has purchased.  Because it was designed especially for course evaluations, it provides the most options and best reporting.  Because it takes some time to write, configure, and distribute the survey, it is best for department-wide surveys or similar course evaluations used by multiple instructors.  Once set up, it can be used within Moodle or as a separate site.  Contact your
Academic Technologist
for more information about getting started with EvaluationKit.
Survey software: Google Forms and Qualtrics
It is possible to use online survey software to conduct course evaluations.
Google Forms
(via your Swarthmore account) is easy to set up, but offers limited reporting and no ability to know who hasn't completed the evaluation.
Qualtrics
surveys are more sophisticated but take longer to set up.  More information about Qualtrics is available on the
Qualtrics Survey Software
page.