Title: Equipment Available for Checkout
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ACADTECH/pages/20909857
Version: 12
---

Info
*Starred items are only available to faculty and staff for checkout
Laptops*
Dell Laptops
Windows OS
MacBook Pro Laptops
Mac OS
iPads*
iPads
If you're curious about the merits of the iPad for educational or personal use, you can explore new possibilities in mobile computing by checking out one of ours. We have a small selection of iPads available for checkout to faculty and staff.
Display Adapters
Display Adapters are necessary if you intend on connecting your laptop to a projector or additional display. We have various HDMI adaptors available for your PC or Mac device including: USB-C, Full and Mini Display Port, and Lightning to HDMI for your iPad or iPhone.
Projectors* & Presentation Tools
Portable Projectors
We have a small selection of projectors available for faculty and staff to check out on loan. For detailed information on portable projector availability, please contact Classroom and Conferencing Technologies at support@swarthmore.edu or call us at Ext. 6201.
Please note
Students may contact the
Office of Student Engagement
at Swarthmore if they wish to check out a projector.
Presentation Remotes
Range: Up to 50 feet (15m)
Audio Loudspeakers
Bluetooth speaker with wired and wireless microphone inputs
Two high-headroom Mackie Mic/line preamps with 48V phantom power
Microphones
Shure SM 58
Handheld microphone ideal for vocals
Dynamic cartridge with cardioid polar pattern
"Podcasting" USB Microphones
Perfect for recording vocals, podcasts, voiceovers, audio for YouTube videos and more
Includes professional features like headphone monitoring, mute, pop filter and shock mount
Select from three recording modes - voice, music or raw
Works with your favorite software on Mac or PC
Desktop USB Microphones
Great for voice recording straight into computer via USB connection
Push to talk button
Headphone jack for real time monitoring
Bass roll-off to filter out unwanted frequencies
USB Headsets
Noise canceling microphone reduces background noise
Works great for Zoom and other video conferencing platforms
Easy to use USB 2.0 connection works with Mac and PC computers
Rotating Microphone
Computer Accessories
Webcams
Perfect for video conferencing and lecture capture
1080p HD video calls
Ultra-wide field of view is ideal for classroom usage
Dual microphones
Mac and PC compatible
iClickers*
Each student uses a "clicker", a portable, handheld device that allows students to vote by "clicking" on the appropriate button for their choice.
Each instructor uses a receiver that collects votes sent by students' clickers. Light and portable, the receiver is powered through any computer's USB port.
Instructors present a question and enable polling.
Each student responds by "clicking" the appropriate button for their choice.
A wireless signal is sent immediately from each responding clicker to the receiver.
The receiver, through iClicker's easy-to-use software, logs and stores the data of each individual student.
The instructor can then display voting results in a graph, to the audience.
The results are also available for later analysis, grading, and exporting to any grade book software or course management system.