Title: HD Classrooms
URL: https://swatkb.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ACADTECH/pages/20909845
Version: 14
---

Information about high definition displays and projection systems in classrooms.
Most of our classrooms have been upgraded to display high definition graphics at 1080p. This enables you to present from your laptop in a wide-screen format with an HDMI input.  An HDMI cable should be present at the teaching station or AV cabinet. If your laptop has an HDMI output, you should be able to plug directly into our system. If you have UCB-C or Mini-DisplayPort, you will will have to adapt to HDMI. Classroom and Conferencing Technology has a small supply of these adapters in stock available for checkout.
In these classrooms, you will now be able to play multi-region Blu-ray discs as well as multi-region DVDs. An additional feature of going with a Digital Input is that our classrooms are HDCP (High Definition Copy Protection) compliant. This means that you will be able to play copy protected media from your own computer that was encoded with HDCP encryption. Please see the list of supported resolutions below. When and if you need assistance connecting your devices, please feel free to contact Classroom and Conferencing Technology directly at x6201 or
avbox@swarthmore.edu
.
Supported Resolutions (Display Control Panel)
1920x1080 (HD)
1024x768 (4:3)
1280x800
1280x720
720p
Computer Display Ports and What They Look Like
HDMI
Mini Display Port
USB-c
HDMI port
Diagram of a Mini Display Port
USB-C
Classroom Equipment Quick Start Instructions for rooms located in the Science Center Building
1. Touch the center of the Crestron screen to wake the display. Touch the screen again to start up the system. The projector will turn on at this time.
2. Select the media source you wish to use from the top of the screen.
3. To use the installed classroom computer, select “Mac”.
4. To connect your own laptop, plug in the HDMI cable and select “HDMI”.  Laptop audio can pass thru the HDMI cable. *You must set this in your laptop’s sound preferences.
5. To blank an image, select  “Blank Image”.
When finished, press the “Exit” button on the bottom right of the Crestron screen.  You will then be asked, “Are you sure you want to exit and shut down the system?”  Select “Yes”.
Classroom Equipment Quick Start Instructions for rooms not located in the Science Center Building
1. Touch the center of the Crestron screen to wake the display. Touch the screen again to start up the system.
2. Select the media source you wish to use from the left side of the screen. The projector will turn on at this time.
3. To use the installed classroom computer, select “iMac”.
4. To connect your own laptop, plug in the HDMI cable and select “Laptop”.  Laptop audio can pass thru the HDMI cable. *You must set this in your laptop’s sound preferences.
5. To blank an image, select  “Video Blank”.
When finished, press the “Exit” button on the bottom right of the Crestron screen.  You will then be asked, “Are you sure you want to exit and shut down the system?”  Select “Yes”.
Formatting PowerPoint for Widescreen Projection
For Mac Users
: In PowerPoint, select Page Setup from the File menu.
For Windows Users
: In Powerpoint, select the Design Tab, then Page Set up.